

The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper across his eyes. He looked at me, Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice. The Gryphon, ever the impatient one, set to work shaking him and punching him in the back. At last, the Mock Turtle recovered his voice, and with tears running down his cheeks, he began to speak again.

“You may not have lived much under the sea—” he started, and I quickly interjected, “I haven’t.” He continued, “and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster—” I almost said something about tasting one once, but caught myself just in time and said, “No, never.” The Mock Turtle seemed not to notice and went on, “—so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a Lobster Quadrille is!”

“No, indeed,” I said. “What sort of a dance is it?”

The Gryphon, always eager to explain, jumped in. “Why,” he said, “you first form into a line along the sea-shore—”

“Two lines!” cried the Mock Turtle. “Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on; then, when you’ve cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way—”

“That generally takes some time,” interrupted the Gryphon.

The Mock Turtle, undeterred, continued, “—you advance twice—”

“Each with a lobster as a partner!” shouted the Gryphon.

“Of course,” the Mock Turtle said: “advance twice, set to partners—”

“—change lobsters, and retire in same order,” continued the Gryphon.

“Then, you know,” the Mock Turtle went on, “you throw the—”

“The lobsters!” shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.

“—as far out to sea as you can—”

“Swim after them!” screamed the Gryphon.

“Turn a somersault in the sea!” cried the Mock Turtle, capering wildly about.

“Change lobsters again!” yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice.

“Back to land again, and that’s all the first figure,” said the Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures, who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at me.

“It must be a very pretty dance,” I said timidly.

“Would you like to see a little of it?” asked the Mock Turtle.

“Very much indeed,” I replied.

“Come, let’s try the first figure!” said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon. “We can do without lobsters, you know. Which shall sing?”

“Oh, you sing,” said the Gryphon. “I’ve forgotten the words.”

So they began solemnly dancing round and round me, every now and then treading on my toes when they passed too close, and waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly and sadly:—

“Will you walk a little faster?” said a whiting to a snail.
“There’s a porpoise close behind us, and he’s treading on my tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle—will you come and join the dance?
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance?
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance?
“You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to sea!”
But the snail replied “Too far, too far!” and gave a look askance—
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance.
“What matters it how far we go?” his scaly friend replied.
“There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.


---

The further off from England the nearer is to France—then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance. Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance? Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance? The Mock Turtle and the Gryphon looked at me expectantly, their eyes wide with anticipation.

“Thank you, it’s a very interesting dance to watch,” I said, feeling very glad that it was over at last. “and I do so like that curious song about the whiting!” The Mock Turtle nodded, his eyes twinkling with amusement.

“Oh, as to the whiting,” the Mock Turtle said, “they—you’ve seen them, of course?” I nodded, remembering the times I had seen them at dinner. “Yes,” I replied, “I’ve often seen them at dinn—” I quickly stopped myself, realizing I might have said too much.

“I don’t know where Dinn may be,” the Mock Turtle said, “but if you’ve seen them so often, of course you know what they’re like.” I thought for a moment, trying to recall the details. “I believe so,” I replied thoughtfully. “They have their tails in their mouths—and they’re all over crumbs.”

“You’re wrong about the crumbs,” the Mock Turtle said. “crumbs would all wash off in the sea. But they _have_ their tails in their mouths; and the reason is—” He yawned and shut his eyes. “Tell her about the reason and all that,” he said to the Gryphon.

“The reason is,” the Gryphon said, “that they _would_ go with the lobsters to the dance. So they got thrown out to sea. So they had to fall a long way. So they got their tails fast in their mouths. So they couldn’t get them out again. That’s all.” I listened intently, finding the explanation both fascinating and strange.

“Thank you,” I said, “it’s very interesting. I never knew so much about a whiting before.” The Gryphon nodded, clearly pleased with my interest. “I can tell you more than that, if you like,” he said. “Do you know why it’s called a whiting?”

I shook my head, admitting that I had never thought about it. “I never thought about it,” I said. “Why?” The Gryphon’s expression grew solemn. “_It does the boots and shoes_,” he replied very solemnly. I was thoroughly puzzled. “Does the boots and shoes!” I repeated in a wondering tone.

“Why, what are _your_ shoes done with?” the Gryphon asked. “I mean, what makes them so shiny?” I looked down at my shoes, considering the question. “They’re done with blacking, I believe.” The Gryphon nodded, as if this was the expected answer.

“Boots and shoes under the sea,” the Gryphon continued in a deep voice, “are done with a whiting. Now you know.” I was still curious about the materials used. “And what are they made of?” I asked, my tone filled with great curiosity.

“Soles and eels, of course,” the Gryphon replied rather impatiently. “any shrimp could have told you that.” I couldn’t help but smile at the absurdity of it all.

“If I’d been the whiting,” I said, my thoughts still running on the song, “I’d have said to the porpoise, ‘Keep back, please: we don’t want _you_ with us!’” The Mock Turtle chuckled, clearly amused by my comment.

“They were obliged to have him with them,” the Mock Turtle said. “no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.” I was surprised by this revelation. “Wouldn’t it really?” I asked, my tone filled with great surprise.

“Of course not,” the Mock Turtle replied. “why, if a fish came to _me_, and told me he was going a journey, I should say ‘With what porpoise?’” I couldn’t help but correct him. “Don’t you mean ‘purpose’?” I asked.

“I mean what I say,” the Mock Turtle replied in an offended tone. The Gryphon quickly changed the subject. “Come, let’s hear some of _your_ adventures,” he said.

“I could tell you my adventures—beginning from this morning,” I said a little timidly. “but it’s no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then.” The Mock Turtle seemed intrigued. “Explain all that,” he said.


“No, no! The adventures first,” said the Gryphon in an impatient tone. “Explanations take such a dreadful time.” So I began telling them my adventures from the time when I first saw the White Rabbit. I was a little nervous at first, with the two creatures getting so close to me, one on each side, and opening their eyes and mouths so very wide. But I gained courage as I went on. My listeners were perfectly quiet until I got to the part about repeating “_You are old, Father William_,” to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming out different. Then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath and said, “That’s very curious.”

“It’s all about as curious as it can be,” said the Gryphon.

“It all came different!” the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully. “I should like to hear her try and repeat something now. Tell her to begin.” He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over me.

“Stand up and repeat ‘’_Tis the voice of the sluggard_,’” said the Gryphon.

How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat lessons! I thought to myself. I might as well be at school at once. However, I got up and began to repeat it, but my head was so full of the Lobster Quadrille that I hardly knew what I was saying. The words came out very queer indeed:—

“’Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
“You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair.”
As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.”

“That’s different from what _I_ used to say when I was a child,” said the Gryphon.

“Well, I never heard it before,” said the Mock Turtle; “but it sounds uncommon nonsense.”

I said nothing; I had sat down with my face in my hands, wondering if anything would ever happen in a natural way again.

“I should like to have it explained,” said the Mock Turtle.

“She can’t explain it,” said the Gryphon hastily. “Go on with the next verse.”

“But about his toes?” the Mock Turtle persisted. “How could he turn them out with his nose, you know?”

“It’s the first position in dancing,” I said, but I was dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing and longed to change the subject.

“Go on with the next verse,” the Gryphon repeated impatiently. “It begins ‘_I passed by his garden_.’”

I did not dare to disobey, though I felt sure it would all come wrong. I went on in a trembling voice:—

“I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie—”

“What is the use of repeating all that stuff,” the Mock Turtle interrupted, “if you don’t explain it as you go on? It’s by far the most confusing thing I ever heard!”

“Yes, I think you’d better leave off,” said the Gryphon. And I was relieved to stop, though I still felt puzzled and longed for something more natural to happen.


I was only too glad to do so. “Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?” the Gryphon went on. “Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?”

“Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,” I replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather offended tone, “Hm! No accounting for tastes! Sing her ‘_Turtle Soup_,’ will you, old fellow?”

The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes choked with sobs, to sing this:—

“Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
Waiting in a hot tureen!
Who for such dainties would not stoop?
Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
    Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
    Beautiful, beautiful Soup!
“Beautiful Soup! Who cares for fish,
Game, or any other dish?
Who would not give all else for two p
ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
    Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
    Beautiful, beauti—FUL SOUP!”

“Chorus again!” cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had just begun to repeat it, when a cry of “The trial’s beginning!” was heard in the distance.

“Come on!” cried the Gryphon, and, taking me by the hand, it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

“What trial is it?” I panted as we ran; but the Gryphon only answered “Come on!” and ran the faster, while more and more faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed us, the melancholy words:—

“Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
    Beautiful, beautiful Soup!”