

I barely had time to process what was happening when I jumped up, forgetting how large I had become. In my haste, I tipped over the jury-box, sending the jurymen sprawling onto the heads of the crowd below. It reminded me of the time I accidentally upset a globe of goldfish. "Oh, I _beg_ your pardon!" I exclaimed, feeling great dismay as I quickly began picking them up, trying to put them back into the jury-box before they could die.

The King, in a very grave voice, said, "The trial cannot proceed until all the jurymen are back in their proper places—_all_." He emphasized the word "all" and looked hard at me as he said it. I glanced at the jury-box and saw that I had put the Lizard head downwards. The poor thing was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, unable to move. I soon got it out again and put it right, though I thought to myself, "Not that it signifies much; I should think it would be _quite_ as much use in the trial one way up as the other."

Once the jurymen had recovered from the shock and their slates and pencils were found and handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the accident. All except the Lizard, who seemed too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open, gazing up into the roof of the court.

"What do you know about this business?" the King asked me.

"Nothing," I replied.

"Nothing _whatever_?" the King persisted.

"Nothing whatever," I said.

The King turned to the jury and said, "That’s very important." They were just beginning to write this down on their slates when the White Rabbit interrupted, "Unimportant, your Majesty means, of course," he said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke.

"Unimportant, of course, I meant," the King hastily said, and went on to himself in an undertone, "important—unimportant—unimportant—important—" as if he were trying which word sounded best. Some of the jury wrote it down "important," and some "unimportant." I could see this, as I was near enough to look over their slates; "but it doesn’t matter a bit," I thought to myself.

At this moment, the King, who had been for some time busily writing in his note-book, cackled out "Silence!" and read out from his book, "Rule Forty-two. _All persons more than a mile high to leave the court_."

Everybody looked at me. "I’m not a mile high," I said.

"You are," the King said.

"Nearly two miles high," added the Queen.

"Well, I shan’t go, at any rate," I said. "Besides, that’s not a regular rule: you invented it just now."

"It’s the oldest rule in the book," the King said.

"Then it ought to be Number One," I said.

The King turned pale and shut his note-book hastily. "Consider your verdict," he said to the jury, in a low, trembling voice.

"There’s more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty," said the White Rabbit.


---

The King turned pale and shut his note-book hastily. "Consider your verdict," he said to the jury, in a low, trembling voice.

White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; “this paper has just been picked up.”

“What’s in it?” said the Queen.

“I haven’t opened it yet,” said the White Rabbit, “but it seems to be a letter, written by the prisoner to—to somebody.”

“It must have been that,” said the King, “unless it was written to nobody, which isn’t usual, you know.”

“Who is it directed to?” said one of the jurymen.

“It isn’t directed at all,” said the White Rabbit; “in fact, there’s nothing written on the _outside_.” He unfolded the paper as he spoke, and added “It isn’t a letter, after all: it’s a set of verses.”

“Are they in the prisoner’s handwriting?” asked another of the jurymen.

“No, they’re not,” said the White Rabbit, “and that’s the queerest thing about it.” (The jury all looked puzzled.)

“He must have imitated somebody else’s hand,” said the King. (The jury all brightened up again.)

“Please your Majesty,” said the Knave, “I didn’t write it, and they can’t prove I did: there’s no name signed at the end.”

“If you didn’t sign it,” said the King, “that only makes the matter worse. You _must_ have meant some mischief, or else you’d have signed your name like an honest man.”

There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really clever thing the King had said that day.

“That _proves_ his guilt,” said the Queen.

“It proves nothing of the sort!” I said. “Why, you don’t even know what they’re about!”

“Read them,” said the King.

The White Rabbit put on his spectacles. “Where shall I begin, please your Majesty?” he asked.

“Begin at the beginning,” the King said gravely, “and go on till you come to the end: then stop.”

These were the verses the White Rabbit read:—
“They told me you had been to her,
    And mentioned me to him:
She gave me a good character,
    But said I could not swim.
He sent them word I had not gone
    (We know it to be true):
If she should push the matter on,
    What would become of you?
I gave her one, they gave him two,
    You gave us three or more;
They all returned from him to you,
    Though they were mine before.
If I or she should chance to be
    Involved in this affair,
He trusts to you to set them free,
    Exactly as we were.
My notion was that you had been
    (Before she had this fit)
An obstacle that came between
    Him, and ourselves, and it.
Don’t let him know she liked them best,
    For this must ever be
A secret, kept from all the rest,
    Between yourself and me.”

“That’s the most important piece of evidence we’ve heard yet,” said the King, rubbing his hands. “so now let the jury—”

“If any one of them can explain it,” I said, (I had grown so large in the last few minutes that I wasn’t a bit afraid of interrupting him,) “I’ll give him sixpence. _I_ don’t believe there’s an atom of meaning in it.”

The jury all wrote down on their slates, “_She_ doesn’t believe there’s an atom of meaning in it,” but none of them attempted to explain the paper.

“If there’s no meaning in it,” said the King, “that saves a world of trouble, you know, as we needn’t try to find any. And yet I don’t know,” he went on, spreading out the verses on his knee, and looking at them with one eye; “I seem to see some meaning in them, after all. “—_said I could not swim_—” you can’t swim, can you?” he added, turning to the Knave.


The Knave shook his head sadly. "Do I look like it?" he said. (Which he certainly did _not_, being made entirely of cardboard.)

The King went on muttering over the verses to himself: “‘_We know it to be true_—’ that’s the jury, of course—‘_I gave her one, they gave him two_—’ why, that must be what he did with the tarts, you know—”

“But, it goes on ‘_they all returned from him to you_,’” I said.

“Why, there they are!” said the King triumphantly, pointing to the tarts on the table. “Nothing can be clearer than _that_. Then again—‘_before she had this fit_—’ you never had fits, my dear, I think?” he said to the Queen.

“Never!” said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the Lizard as she spoke. (The unfortunate little Bill had left off writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)

“Then the words don’t _fit_ you,” said the King, looking round the court with a smile. There was a dead silence.

“It’s a pun!” the King added in an offended tone, and everybody laughed, “Let the jury consider their verdict,” the King said, for about the twentieth time that day.

“No, no!” said the Queen. “Sentence first—verdict afterwards.”

“Stuff and nonsense!” I said loudly. “The idea of having the sentence first!”

“Hold your tongue!” said the Queen, turning purple.

“I won’t!” I said.

“Off with her head!” the Queen shouted at the top of her voice. Nobody moved.

“Who cares for you?” I said, (I had grown to my full size by this time.) “You’re nothing but a pack of cards!”

At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying down upon me: I gave a little scream, half of fright and half of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found myself lying on the bank, with my head in the lap of my sister, who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon my face.

“Wake up, Alice dear!” said my sister; “Why, what a long sleep you’ve had!”

“Oh, I’ve had such a curious dream!” I said, and I told my sister, as well as I could remember them, all these strange Adventures of mine that you have just been reading about; and when I had finished, my sister kissed me, and said, “It _was_ a curious dream, dear, certainly: but now run in to your tea; it’s getting late.”

So I got up and ran off, thinking while I ran, as well I might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

But my sister sat still just as I left her, leaning her head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:—

First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers—she could hear the very tones of my voice, and see that queer little toss of my head to keep back the wandering hair that _would_ always get into my eyes—and still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place around her became alive with the strange creatures of my little sister’s dream.


The long grass rustled at my feet as the White Rabbit hurried by—the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool—I could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution—once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the Duchess’s knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it—once more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard’s slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs, filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock Turtle.

So I sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed myself in Wonderland, though I knew I had but to open them again, and all would change to dull reality—the grass would be only rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds—the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells, and the Queen’s shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd boy—and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and all the other queer noises, would change (I knew) to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard—while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle’s heavy sobs.

Lastly, I pictured to myself how this same little sister of mine would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and loving heart of her childhood: and how she would gather about her other little children, and make their eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of Wonderland of long ago: and how she would feel with all their simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys, remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.