

I stood there, staring into the eyes of the large blue Caterpillar, who was quietly smoking a long hookah. We remained silent for what felt like an eternity. Finally, the Caterpillar broke the silence, taking the hookah out of its mouth and addressing me in a languid, sleepy voice.

“Who are _you?_” the Caterpillar asked.

I felt a bit uneasy. This wasn’t the most welcoming start to a conversation. “I—I hardly know, sir, just at present—at least I know who I _was_ when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been changed several times since then.”

“What do you mean by that?” the Caterpillar demanded sternly. “Explain yourself!”

“I can’t explain _myself_, I’m afraid, sir,” I replied, “because I’m not myself, you see.”

“I don’t see,” the Caterpillar said.

“I’m afraid I can’t put it more clearly,” I responded very politely, “for I can’t understand it myself to begin with; and being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.”

“It isn’t,” the Caterpillar said flatly.

“Well, perhaps you haven’t found it so yet,” I ventured, “but when you have to turn into a chrysalis—you will some day, you know—and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you’ll feel it a little queer, won’t you?”

“Not a bit,” the Caterpillar replied.

“Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,” I said, “all I know is, it would feel very queer to _me_.”

“You!” the Caterpillar said contemptuously. “Who are _you?_”

The conversation seemed to loop back to the beginning, and I felt a little irritated by the Caterpillar’s short remarks. I drew myself up and said, very gravely, “I think, you ought to tell me who _you_ are, first.”

“Why?” the Caterpillar asked.

Another puzzling question. I couldn’t think of any good reason, and the Caterpillar seemed to be in a very unpleasant state of mind. I decided to turn away.

“Come back!” the Caterpillar called after me. “I’ve something important to say!”

That sounded promising. I turned and came back.

“Keep your temper,” the Caterpillar advised.

“Is that all?” I asked, trying to swallow down my anger as well as I could.

“No,” the Caterpillar said.

I decided to wait, as I had nothing else to do, and perhaps it might tell me something worth hearing. For some minutes, the Caterpillar puffed away without speaking. Finally, it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, “So you think you’re changed, do you?”

“I’m afraid I am, sir,” I said; “I can’t remember things as I used—and I don’t keep the same size for ten minutes together!”

“Can’t remember _what_ things?” the Caterpillar asked.

“Well, I’ve tried to say “How doth the little busy bee,” but it all came different!” I replied in a very melancholy voice.

“Repeat, “_You are old, Father William_,’” the Caterpillar instructed.

I folded my hands and began:—

“You are old, Father William,” the young man said,
    “And your hair has become very white;
And yet you incessantly stand on your head—
    Do you think, at your age, it is right?”

“In my youth,” Father William replied to his son,
    “I feared it might injure the brain;
But, now that I’m perfectly sure I have none,
    Why, I do it again and again.”

“You are old,” said the youth, “as I mentioned before,


---

“In my youth,” Father William replied to his son, “I feared it might injure the brain; But, now that I’m perfectly sure I have none, Why, I do it again and again.”

“You are old,” said the youth, “as I mentioned before, And have grown most uncommonly fat; Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door— Pray, what is the reason of that?”

“In my youth,” said the sage, as he shook his grey locks, “I kept all my limbs very supple By the use of this ointment—one shilling the box— Allow me to sell you a couple?”

“You are old,” said the youth, “and your jaws are too weak For anything tougher than suet; Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak— Pray, how did you manage to do it?”

“In my youth,” said his father, “I took to the law, And argued each case with my wife; And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw, Has lasted the rest of my life.”

“You are old,” said the youth, “one would hardly suppose That your eye was as steady as ever; Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose— What made you so awfully clever?”

“I have answered three questions, and that is enough,” Said his father; “don’t give yourself airs! Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff? Be off, or I’ll kick you down stairs!”

“That is not said right,” said the Caterpillar. “Not _quite_ right, I’m afraid,” I timidly replied; “some of the words have got altered.” “It is wrong from beginning to end,” said the Caterpillar decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.

The Caterpillar was the first to speak. “What size do you want to be?” it asked. “Oh, I’m not particular as to size,” I hastily replied; “only one doesn’t like changing so often, you know.” “I _don’t_ know,” said the Caterpillar.

I said nothing: I had never been so much contradicted in my life before, and I felt that I was losing my temper. “Are you content now?” said the Caterpillar. “Well, I should like to be a _little_ larger, sir, if you wouldn’t mind,” I said: “three inches is such a wretched height to be.”

“It is a very good height indeed!” said the Caterpillar angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high). “But I’m not used to it!” I pleaded in a piteous tone. And I thought to myself, “I wish the creatures wouldn’t be so easily offended!”

“You’ll get used to it in time,” said the Caterpillar; and it put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again. This time I waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely remarking as it went, “One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you grow shorter.”

“One side of _what?_ The other side of _what?_” I thought to myself. “Of the mushroom,” said the Caterpillar, just as if I had asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

I remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as it was perfectly round, I found this a very difficult question. However, at last I stretched my arms round it as far as they would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

“And now which is which?” I said to myself, and nibbled a little of the right-hand bit to try the effect: the next moment I felt a violent blow underneath my chin: it had struck my foot!


I was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but I felt that there was no time to be lost, as I was shrinking rapidly; so I set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. My chin was pressed so closely against my foot, that there was hardly room to open my mouth; but I did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.

*      *      *      *      *      *      *
    *      *      *      *      *      *
*      *      *      *      *      *      *

“Come, my head’s free at last!” I said in a tone of delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when I found that my shoulders were nowhere to be found: all I could see, when I looked down, was an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far below me.

“What _can_ all that green stuff be?” I wondered aloud. “And where _have_ my shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I can’t see you?” I was moving them about as I spoke, but no result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the distant green leaves.

As there seemed to be no chance of getting my hands up to my head, I tried to get my head down to them, and was delighted to find that my neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. I had just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which I found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which I had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made me draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into my face, and was beating me violently with its wings.

“Serpent!” screamed the Pigeon.

“I’m _not_ a serpent!” I said indignantly. “Let me alone!”

“Serpent, I say again!” repeated the Pigeon, but in a more subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, “I’ve tried every way, and nothing seems to suit them!”

“I haven’t the least idea what you’re talking about,” I said.

“I’ve tried the roots of trees, and I’ve tried banks, and I’ve tried hedges,” the Pigeon went on, without attending to me; “but those serpents! There’s no pleasing them!”

I was more and more puzzled, but I thought there was no use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

“As if it wasn’t trouble enough hatching the eggs,” said the Pigeon; “but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day! Why, I haven’t had a wink of sleep these three weeks!”

“I’m very sorry you’ve been annoyed,” I said, who was beginning to see its meaning.

“And just as I’d taken the highest tree in the wood,” continued the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, “and just as I was thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down from the sky! Ugh, Serpent!”

“But I’m _not_ a serpent, I tell you!” I said. “I’m a—I’m a—”

“Well! _What_ are you?” said the Pigeon. “I can see you’re trying to invent something!”

“I—I’m a little girl,” I said, rather doubtfully, as I remembered the number of changes I had gone through that day.

“A likely story indeed!” said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest contempt. “I’ve seen a good many little girls in my time, but never _one_ with such a neck as that! No, no! You’re a serpent; and there’s no use denying it. I suppose you’ll be telling me next that you never tasted an egg!”


“I _have_ tasted eggs, certainly,” I said, who was a very truthful child; “but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you know.”

“I don’t believe it,” the Pigeon said; “but if they do, why then they’re a kind of serpent, that’s all I can say.”

This was such a new idea to me, that I was quite silent for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding, “You’re looking for eggs, I know _that_ well enough; and what does it matter to me whether you’re a little girl or a serpent?”

“It matters a good deal to _me_,” I said hastily; “but I’m not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn’t want _yours_: I don’t like them raw.”

“Well, be off, then!” the Pigeon said in a sulky tone, as it settled down again into its nest. I crouched down among the trees as well as I could, for my neck kept getting entangled among the branches, and every now and then I had to stop and untwist it. After a while, I remembered that I still held the pieces of mushroom in my hands, and I set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until I had succeeded in bringing myself down to my usual height.

It was so long since I had been anything near the right size, that it felt quite strange at first; but I got used to it in a few minutes, and began talking to myself, as usual. “Come, there’s half my plan done now! How puzzling all these changes are! I’m never sure what I’m going to be, from one minute to another! However, I’ve got back to my right size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden—how _is_ that to be done, I wonder?” As I said this, I came suddenly upon an open place, with a little house in it about four feet high. “Whoever lives there,” I thought, “it’ll never do to come upon them _this_ size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits!” So I began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did not venture to go near the house till I had brought myself down to nine inches high.