

---

I approached the house and saw a table set out under a tree. The March Hare and the Hatter were having tea, with a Dormouse fast asleep between them. The two were using the Dormouse as a cushion, their elbows resting on it as they talked over its head. "Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse," I thought, though it didn't seem to mind being asleep.

The table was large, but the three of them were crowded together at one corner. "No room! No room!" they cried out when they saw me coming. "There’s plenty of room!" I said indignantly, and I sat down in a large arm-chair at one end of the table.

"Have some wine," the March Hare said in an encouraging tone. I looked all around the table but saw only tea. "I don’t see any wine," I remarked. "There isn’t any," the March Hare replied. "Then it wasn’t very civil of you to offer it," I said angrily. "It wasn’t very civil of you to sit down without being invited," the March Hare retorted. "I didn’t know it was your table," I said. "It’s laid for a great many more than three."

"Your hair wants cutting," the Hatter said. He had been looking at me with great curiosity, and this was his first speech. "You should learn not to make personal remarks," I said with some severity. "It’s very rude." The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this but all he said was, "Why is a raven like a writing-desk?"

"Come, we shall have some fun now!" I thought. "I’m glad they’ve begun asking riddles.—I believe I can guess that," I added aloud. "Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?" the March Hare asked. "Exactly so," I replied. "Then you should say what you mean," the March Hare continued. "I do," I hastily replied. "At least—at least I mean what I say—that’s the same thing, you know."

"Not the same thing a bit!" the Hatter said. "You might just as well say that ‘I see what I eat’ is the same thing as ‘I eat what I see’!" "You might just as well say," added the March Hare, "that ‘I like what I get’ is the same thing as ‘I get what I like’!" "You might just as well say," added the Dormouse, who seemed to be talking in his sleep, "that ‘I breathe when I sleep’ is the same thing as ‘I sleep when I breathe’!" "It is the same thing with you," said the Hatter, and here the conversation dropped. The party sat silent for a minute while I thought over all I could remember about ravens and writing-desks, which wasn’t much.

The Hatter was the first to break the silence. "What day of the month is it?" he said, turning to me. He had taken his watch out of his pocket and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then, and holding it to his ear. I considered a little and then said, "The fourth." "Two days wrong!" sighed the Hatter. "I told you butter wouldn’t suit the works!" he added, looking angrily at the March Hare. "It was the best butter," the March Hare meekly replied. "Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well," the Hatter grumbled. "You shouldn’t have put it in with the bread-knife." The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily.


The Hatter was the first to break the silence. "What day of the month is it?" he said, turning to me. He had taken his watch out of his pocket and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then, and holding it to his ear. I considered a little and then said, "The fourth." "Two days wrong!" sighed the Hatter. "I told you butter wouldn’t suit the works!" he added, looking angrily at the March Hare. "It was the best butter," the March Hare meekly replied. "Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well," the Hatter grumbled. "You shouldn’t have put it in with the bread-knife." The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily.

Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity. "What a funny watch!" I remarked. "It tells the day of the month, and doesn’t tell what o’clock it is!" "Why should it?" muttered the Hatter. "Does _your_ watch tell you what year it is?" "Of course not," I replied very readily: "but that’s because it stays the same year for such a long time together." "Which is just the case with _mine_," said the Hatter.

I felt dreadfully puzzled. The Hatter’s remark seemed to have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English. "I don’t quite understand you," I said, as politely as I could. "The Dormouse is asleep again," said the Hatter, and he poured a little hot tea upon its nose.

The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without opening its eyes, "Of course, of course; just what I was going to remark myself." "Have you guessed the riddle yet?" the Hatter said, turning to me again. "No, I give it up," I replied: "what’s the answer?" "I haven’t the slightest idea," said the Hatter. "Nor I," said the March Hare.

I sighed wearily. "I think you might do something better with the time," I said, "than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers." "If you knew Time as well as I do," said the Hatter, "you wouldn’t talk about wasting _it_. It’s _him_." "I don’t know what you mean," I said. "Of course you don’t!" the Hatter said, tossing his head contemptuously. "I dare say you never even spoke to Time!" "Perhaps not," I cautiously replied: "but I know I have to beat time when I learn music." "Ah! that accounts for it," said the Hatter. "He won’t stand beating. Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he’d do almost anything you liked with the clock. For instance, suppose it were nine o’clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons: you’d only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twinkling! Half-past one, time for dinner!"

"I only wish it was," the March Hare said to itself in a whisper. "That would be grand, certainly," I said thoughtfully: "but then—I shouldn’t be hungry for it, you know." "Not at first, perhaps," said the Hatter: "but you could keep it to half-past one as long as you liked." "Is that the way _you_ manage?" I asked.

The Hatter shook his head mournfully. "Not I!" he replied. "We quarrelled last March—just before _he_ went mad, you know—" (pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) "—it was at the great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing 'Twinkle, twinkle, little bat! How I wonder what you’re at!' You know the song, perhaps?" "I’ve heard something like it," I said. "It goes on, you know," the Hatter continued, "in this way:— 'Up above the world you fly, Like a tea-tray in the sky. Twinkle, twinkle—'"

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep "_Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle_—" and went on so long that they had to pinch it to make it stop.


I barely finished the first verse when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, “He’s murdering the time! Off with his head!” I exclaimed, “How dreadfully savage!” The Hatter went on in a mournful tone, “And ever since that, he won’t do a thing I ask! It’s always six o’clock now.”

A bright idea came into my head. “Is that the reason so many tea-things are put out here?” I asked. The Hatter sighed, “Yes, that’s it. It’s always tea-time, and we’ve no time to wash the things between whiles.”

“Then you keep moving round, I suppose?” I said. “Exactly so,” the Hatter replied, “as the things get used up.”

“But what happens when you come to the beginning again?” I ventured to ask. The March Hare interrupted, yawning, “Suppose we change the subject. I’m getting tired of this. I vote the young lady tells us a story.”

“I’m afraid I don’t know one,” I said, rather alarmed at the proposal. “Then the Dormouse shall!” they both cried. “Wake up, Dormouse!” And they pinched it on both sides at once.

The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes. “I wasn’t asleep,” he said in a hoarse, feeble voice, “I heard every word you fellows were saying.” The March Hare said, “Tell us a story!” “Yes, please do!” I pleaded. The Hatter added, “And be quick about it, or you’ll be asleep again before it’s done.”

“Once upon a time there were three little sisters,” the Dormouse began in a great hurry, “and their names were Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well—”

“What did they live on?” I asked, who always took a great interest in questions of eating and drinking. The Dormouse, after thinking a minute or two, said, “They lived on treacle.”

“They couldn’t have done that, you know,” I gently remarked, “they’d have been ill.” “So they were,” the Dormouse said, “_very_ ill.”

I tried to fancy to myself what such an extraordinary way of living would be like, but it puzzled me too much, so I went on, “But why did they live at the bottom of a well?”

“Take some more tea,” the March Hare said to me, very earnestly. “I’ve had nothing yet,” I replied in an offended tone, “so I can’t take more.” The Hatter said, “You mean you can’t take _less_. It’s very easy to take _more_ than nothing.”

“Nobody asked _your_ opinion,” I said. The Hatter asked triumphantly, “Who’s making personal remarks now?”

I did not quite know what to say to this, so I helped myself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the Dormouse, and repeated my question, “Why did they live at the bottom of a well?”

The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then said, “It was a treacle-well.”

“There’s no such thing!” I was beginning very angrily, but the Hatter and the March Hare went “Sh! sh!” and the Dormouse sulkily remarked, “If you can’t be civil, you’d better finish the story for yourself.”

“No, please go on!” I said very humbly, “I won’t interrupt again. I dare say there may be _one_.”


“Take some more tea,” the March Hare said to me, very earnestly. “I’ve had nothing yet,” I replied in an offended tone, “so I can’t take more.” The Hatter said, “You mean you can’t take _less_. It’s very easy to take _more_ than nothing.”
“Nobody asked _your_ opinion,” I said. The Hatter asked triumphantly, “Who’s making personal remarks now?”

I did not quite know what to say to this, so I helped myself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the Dormouse, and repeated my question, “Why did they live at the bottom of a well?”

The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then said, “It was a treacle-well.”

“There’s no such thing!” I was beginning very angrily, but the Hatter and the March Hare went “Sh! sh!” and the Dormouse sulkily remarked, “If you can’t be civil, you’d better finish the story for yourself.”

“No, please go on!” I said very humbly, “I won’t interrupt again. I dare say there may be _one_.”

“One, indeed!” said the Dormouse indignantly. However, he consented to go on. “And so these three little sisters—they were learning to draw, you know—”
“What did they draw?” I asked, quite forgetting my promise.
“Treacle,” said the Dormouse, without considering at all this time.

“I want a clean cup,” interrupted the Hatter: “let’s all move one place on.”
He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him: the March Hare moved into the Dormouse’s place, and I rather unwillingly took the place of the March Hare. The Hatter was the only one who got any advantage from the change: and I was a good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset the milk-jug into his plate.

I did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so I began very cautiously: “But I don’t understand. Where did they draw the treacle from?”
“You can draw water out of a water-well,” said the Hatter; “so I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well—eh, stupid?”
“But they were _in_ the well,” I said to the Dormouse, not choosing to notice this last remark.
“Of course they were,” said the Dormouse; “—well in.”

This answer so confused me, that I let the Dormouse go on for some time without interrupting it.
“They were learning to draw,” the Dormouse went on, yawning and rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; “and they drew all manner of things—everything that begins with an M—”
“Why with an M?” I asked.
“Why not?” said the March Hare.
I was silent.

The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up again with a little shriek, and went on: “—that begins with an M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness—you know you say things are “much of a muchness”—did you ever see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?”
“Really, now you ask me,” I said, very much confused, “I don’t think—”
“Then you shouldn’t talk,” said the Hatter.

This piece of rudeness was more than I could bear: I got up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of my going, though I looked back once or twice, half hoping that they would call after me: the last time I saw them, they were trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

“At any rate I’ll never go _there_ again!” I said as I picked my way through the wood. “It’s the stupidest tea-party I ever was at in all my life!”

Just as I said this, I noticed that one of the trees had a door leading right into it. “That’s very curious!” I thought. “But everything’s curious today. I think I may as well go in at once.” And in I went.

Once more I found myself in the long hall, and close to the little glass table. “Now, I’ll manage better this time,” I said to myself, and began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking the door that led into the garden. Then I went to work nibbling at the mushroom (I had kept a piece of it in my pocket) till I was about a foot tall.


Once more I found myself in the long hall, and close to the little glass table. “Now, I’ll manage better this time,” I said to myself, and began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking the door that led into the garden. Then I went to work nibbling at the mushroom (I had kept a piece of it in my pocket) till I was about a foot tall. Then she walked down the little passage: and _then_—she found herself at last in the beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains.