

---

Mr. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. Bingley. He had always intended to visit him, though to the last always assuring his wife that he should not go; and till the evening after the visit was paid she had no knowledge of it. It was then disclosed in the following manner. Observing his second daughter employed in trimming a hat, he suddenly addressed her with, “I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Lizzy.”

“We are not in a way to know _what_ Mr. Bingley likes,” said her mother, impatiently. “Since we are not acquainted with him.”

“But you forget, Mama,” I replied, “that we shall meet him at the ball, and Mr. Wickham too promised to introduce us.”

“I do not believe Mr. Wickham will do any such thing,” said Father. “He has more sense.”

“Whatever do you mean, Mr. Bennet?” Mother asked, her voice rising. “You speak as if you know the man.”

“I do know him,” Father said, a hint of amusement in his voice. “I have met him at the club. A very agreeable young man.”

“Well, I am sure I shall be glad to make his acquaintance,” Mother said, her tone softening. “And I hope he will like our Lizzy. She is the most sensible of the girls.”

“Indeed,” Father said, his eyes twinkling. “But I think you will find that Mr. Bingley is more taken with Jane. She is, after all, the most beautiful.”

“Jane is a fine girl,” Mother agreed, “but Lizzy has a certain charm that cannot be denied.”

“We shall see,” Father said, rising from his chair. “We shall see.”

As he left the room, I could not help but feel a flutter of anticipation. Mr. Bingley, a man of large fortune, was coming to Netherfield. And though I had no expectations of him, I could not deny the excitement that filled the air.


resentfully, “since we are not to visit.”

“But you forget, mamma,” I said, “that we shall meet him at the assemblies, and that Mrs. Long has promised to introduce him.”

“I do not believe Mrs. Long will do any such thing. She has two nieces of her own. She is a selfish, hypocritical woman, and I have no opinion of her.”

“No more have I,” Father said; “and I am glad to find that you do not depend on her serving you.”

Mother deigned not to make any reply; but, unable to contain herself, began scolding one of her daughters. “Don’t keep coughing so, Kitty, for heaven’s sake! Have a little compassion on my nerves. You tear them to pieces.”

“Kitty has no discretion in her coughs,” Father said; “she times them ill.”

“I do not cough for my own amusement,” Kitty replied, fretfully. “When is your next ball to be, Lizzy?”

“To-morrow fortnight.”

“Ay, so it is,” Mother cried, “and Mrs. Long does not come back till the day before; so, it will be impossible for her to introduce him, for she will not know him herself.”

“Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and introduce Mr. Bingley to _her_.”

“Impossible, Mr. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted with him myself; how can you be so teasing?”

“I honour your circumspection. A fortnight’s acquaintance is certainly very little. One cannot know what a man really is by the end of a fortnight. But if _we_ do not venture, somebody else will; and after all, Mrs. Long and her nieces must stand their chance; and, therefore, as she will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, I will take it on myself.”

My sisters and I stared at Father. Mother said only, “Nonsense, nonsense!”

“What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?” Father cried. “Do you consider the forms of introduction, and the stress that is laid on them, as nonsense? I cannot quite agree with you _there_. What say you, Mary? For you are a young lady of deep reflection, I know, and read great books, and make extracts.”

Mary wished to say something very sensible, but knew not how.

“While Mary is adjusting her ideas,” Father continued, “let us return to Mr. Bingley.”

“I am sick of Mr. Bingley,” Mother cried.

“I am sorry to hear _that_; but why did you not tell me so before? If I had known as much this morning, I certainly would not have called on him. It is very unlucky; but as I have actually paid the visit, we cannot escape the acquaintance now.”

The astonishment of my sisters and I was just what Father wished—Mother’s astonishment perhaps surpassing the rest; though when the first tumult of joy was over, she began to declare that it was what she had expected all the while.

“How good it was in you, my dear Mr. Bennet! But I knew I should persuade you at last. I was sure you loved your girls too well to neglect such an acquaintance. Well, how pleased I am! And it is such a good joke, too, that you should have gone this morning, and never said a word about it till now.”

“Now, Kitty, you may cough as much as you choose,” Father said; and, as he spoke, he left the room, fatigued with the raptures of his wife.


“What an excellent father you have, girls,” Mother said, when the door was shut. “I do not know how you will ever make him amends for his kindness; or me either, for that matter. At our time of life, it is not so pleasant, I can tell you, to be making new acquaintances every day; but for your sakes we would do anything. Lydia, my love, though you _are_ the youngest, I dare say Mr. Bingley will dance with you at the next ball.”

“Oh,” Lydia replied stoutly, “I am not afraid; for though I _am_ the youngest, I’m the tallest.”

The rest of the evening was spent in conjecturing how soon he would return Father’s visit, and determining when we should ask him to dinner.