

---

The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them—all sorts of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards: the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the other. In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it: they looked so good, that it made me quite hungry to look at them—“I wish they’d get the trial done,” I thought, “and hand round the refreshments!” But there seemed to be no chance of this, so I began looking at everything about me, to pass away the time.

I had never been in a court of justice before, but I had read about them in books, and I was quite pleased to find that I knew the name of nearly everything there. “That’s the judge,” I said to myself, “because of his great wig.” The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming. “And that’s the jury-box,” I thought, “and those twelve creatures,” (I was obliged to say “creatures,” you see, because some of them were animals, and some were birds,) “I suppose they are the jurors.” I said this last word two or three times over to myself, being rather proud of it: for I thought, and rightly too, that very few little girls of my age knew the meaning of it at all. However, “jury-men” would have done just as well.

The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates. “What are they doing?” I whispered to the Gryphon. “They can’t have anything to put down yet, before the trial’s begun.” “They’re putting down their names,” the Gryphon whispered in reply, “for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial.” “Stupid things!” I began in a loud, indignant voice, but I stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, “Silence in the court!” and the King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round, to make out who was talking.

I could see, as well as if I were looking over their shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down “stupid things!” on their slates, and I could even make out that one of them didn’t know how to spell “stupid,” and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him. “A nice muddle their slates’ll be in before the trial’s over!” I thought.

One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked. This of course, I could _not_ stand, and I went round the court and got behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it away. I did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very little use, as it left no mark on the slate.

“Herald, read the accusation!” said the King. On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:—


---

“The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
    All on a summer day:
The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
    And took them quite away!”
“Consider your verdict,” the King said to the jury.
“Not yet, not yet!” the Rabbit hastily interrupted. “There’s a great
deal to come before that!”

---

“Call the first witness,” said the King; and the White Rabbit blew
three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, “First witness!”
The first witness was the Hatter. He came in with a teacup in one hand
and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other. “I beg pardon, your
Majesty,” he began, “for bringing these in: but I hadn’t quite finished
my tea when I was sent for.”
“You ought to have finished,” said the King. “When did you begin?”
The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into the
court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse. “Fourteenth of March, I _think_ it
was,” he said.
“Fifteenth,” said the March Hare.
“Sixteenth,” added the Dormouse.
“Write that down,” the King said to the jury, and the jury eagerly
wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added them up, and
reduced the answer to shillings and pence.
“Take off your hat,” the King said to the Hatter.
“It isn’t mine,” said the Hatter.
“_Stolen!_” the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who instantly made
a memorandum of the fact.
“I keep them to sell,” the Hatter added as an explanation; “I’ve none
of my own. I’m a hatter.”
Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the Hatter,
who turned pale and fidgeted.
“Give your evidence,” said the King; “and don’t be nervous, or I’ll
have you executed on the spot.”
This did not seem to encourage the witness at all: he kept shifting
from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the Queen, and in his
confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the
bread-and-butter.

---

Just at this moment I felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled
me a good deal until I made out what it was: I was beginning to
grow larger again, and I thought at first I would get up and leave
the court; but on second thoughts I decided to remain where I was
as long as there was room for me.
“I wish you wouldn’t squeeze so.” said the Dormouse, who was sitting
next to me. “I can hardly breathe.”
“I can’t help it,” I said very meekly: “I’m growing.”
“You’ve no right to grow _here_,” said the Dormouse.
“Don’t talk nonsense,” I said more boldly: “you know you’re growing
too.”
“Yes, but _I_ grow at a reasonable pace,” said the Dormouse: “not in
that ridiculous fashion.” And he got up very sulkily and crossed over
to the other side of the court.
All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the Hatter, and,
just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to one of the officers
of the court, “Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert!”
on which the wretched Hatter trembled so, that he shook both his shoes
off.
“Give your evidence,” the King repeated angrily, “or I’ll have you
executed, whether you’re nervous or not.”
“I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” the Hatter began, in a trembling voice,


---

“I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” the Hatter began, in a trembling voice. The King’s eyes narrowed as he demanded, “Give your evidence, or I’ll have you executed.” The Hatter’s voice wavered as he continued, “I hadn’t begun my tea—not above a week or so—and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin—and the twinkling of the tea—”

The King interrupted, “The twinkling of the _what?_”

“It _began_ with the tea,” the Hatter replied.

“Of course twinkling begins with a T!” the King snapped. “Do you take me for a dunce? Go on!”

“I’m a poor man,” the Hatter went on, “and most things twinkled after that—only the March Hare said—”

“I didn’t!” the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

“You did!” the Hatter insisted.

“I deny it!” the March Hare retorted.

“He denies it,” the King said, “leave out that part.”

“Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said—” the Hatter went on, looking anxiously around. But the Dormouse, fast asleep, denied nothing.

“After that,” the Hatter continued, “I cut some more bread-and-butter—”

“But what did the Dormouse say?” one of the jury members asked.

“That I can’t remember,” the Hatter admitted.

“You _must_ remember,” the King insisted, “or I’ll have you executed.”

The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, going down on one knee. “I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” he began.

“You’re a _very_ poor _speaker_,” the King declared.

One of the guinea-pigs cheered, but was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court. I watched as they slipped the guinea-pig head first into a large canvas bag, tying it up at the mouth with strings. “I’m glad I’ve seen that done,” I thought. “I’ve so often read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, ‘There was some attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court,’ and I never understood what it meant till now.”

“If that’s all you know about it, you may stand down,” the King continued.

“I can’t go no lower,” the Hatter said, “I’m on the floor, as it is.”

“Then you may _sit_ down,” the King replied.

The other guinea-pig cheered, and was also suppressed. “Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!” I thought. “Now we shall get on better.”

“I’d rather finish my tea,” the Hatter said, with an anxious look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.

“You may go,” the King said, and the Hatter hurriedly left the court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.

“—and just take his head off outside,” the Queen added to one of the officers, but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get to the door.

---

“Call the next witness!” the King ordered.

The next witness was the Duchess’s cook. She carried the pepper-box in her hand, and I guessed who it was even before she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once.

“Give your evidence,” the King said.

“Shan’t,” the cook replied.

The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a low voice, “Your Majesty must cross-examine _this_ witness.”

“Well, if I must, I must,” the King said, with a melancholy air. He folded his arms and frowned at the cook till his eyes were nearly out of sight. “What are tarts made of?” he asked in a deep voice.

“Pepper, mostly,” the cook said.

“Treacle,” said a sleepy voice behind her.


The Queen's shrill voice cut through the air, “Collar that Dormouse! Behead that Dormouse! Turn that Dormouse out of court! Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his whiskers!” The court erupted into chaos as everyone scrambled to comply with her orders. The Dormouse was hastily removed, and by the time things settled down, the cook had mysteriously vanished.

The King sighed in relief, “Never mind! Call the next witness.” He leaned towards the Queen and whispered, “Really, my dear, you must cross-examine the next witness. It quite makes my forehead ache!” I watched the White Rabbit fumble with his list, feeling a growing curiosity about who the next witness would be. “—for they haven’t got much evidence yet,” I thought to myself. My heart skipped a beat when the White Rabbit, in his shrill little voice, read out the name “Alice!”