

I stood there, staring at the quaint little house, trying to figure out my next move. Suddenly, a footman in livery came rushing out of the woods. His face was so peculiar that I would have called him a fish if not for his attire. He rapped loudly on the door with his knuckles. The door opened to reveal another footman, this one with a round face and large eyes like a frog. Both had powdered hair that curled all over their heads. I crept closer to listen.

The Fish-Footman produced a large letter from under his arm, nearly as big as himself, and handed it to the Frog-Footman, saying in a solemn tone, “For the Duchess. An invitation from the Queen to play croquet.” The Frog-Footman repeated, “From the Queen. An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet.” They both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together. I laughed so hard that I had to run back into the woods for fear they’d hear me. When I peeked out again, the Fish-Footman was gone, and the Frog-Footman was sitting on the ground, staring up at the sky.

I approached the door timidly and knocked. The Frog-Footman, still staring up, said, “There’s no sort of use in knocking, and that for two reasons. First, because I’m on the same side of the door as you are; secondly, because they’re making such a noise inside, no one could possibly hear you.” Indeed, there was a constant howling and sneezing, punctuated by crashes as if dishes or kettles were being broken.

“Please, then,” I said, “how am I to get in?”

“There might be some sense in your knocking,” he continued without looking at me, “if we had the door between us. For instance, if you were inside, you might knock, and I could let you out, you know.” He was still gazing at the sky, which I found decidedly uncivil. “But perhaps he can’t help it,” I thought to myself. “His eyes are so very nearly at the top of his head. But at any rate he might answer questions.—How am I to get in?” I repeated aloud.

“I shall sit here,” the Frog-Footman remarked, “till tomorrow—”

Just then, the door of the house opened, and a large plate came skimming out, straight at his head. It grazed his nose and shattered against a tree behind him.

“—or next day, maybe,” he continued as if nothing had happened.

“How am I to get in?” I asked again, louder this time.

“Are you to get in at all?” he said. “That’s the first question, you know.”

I muttered to myself, “It’s really dreadful, the way all the creatures argue. It’s enough to drive one crazy!”

The Frog-Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his statement, but I was already considering my next move.


---

I muttered to myself, “It’s really dreadful, the way all the creatures argue. It’s enough to drive one crazy!” The Frog-Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his statement, but I was already considering my next move.

“I shall sit here,” he said, “on and off, for days and days.”

“But what am _I_ to do?” I asked, feeling a bit lost.

“Anything you like,” the Footman replied, and began whistling.

“Oh, there’s no use in talking to him,” I said desperately. “He’s perfectly idiotic!” And with that, I opened the door and stepped inside.

The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from one end to the other. The Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby. The cook was leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron that seemed to be full of soup.

“There’s certainly too much pepper in that soup!” I thought to myself, trying to suppress a sneeze.

The air was thick with pepper, making it hard to breathe. Even the Duchess sneezed occasionally, and the baby alternated between sneezing and howling without a moment’s pause. The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze were the cook and a large cat sitting on the hearth, grinning from ear to ear.

“Please would you tell me,” I said, a little timidly, “why your cat grins like that?”

“It’s a Cheshire cat,” the Duchess replied, “and that’s why. Pig!”

Her sudden outburst made me jump, but I realized she was addressing the baby, not me. Taking courage, I continued, “I didn’t know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn’t know that cats _could_ grin.”

“They all can,” the Duchess said, “and most of ’em do.”

“I don’t know of any that do,” I said politely, feeling pleased to have started a conversation.

“You don’t know much,” the Duchess retorted, “and that’s a fact.”

I didn’t like the tone of her remark, so I decided to change the subject. While I was trying to think of something else to say, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the fire and began throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby. Fire-irons, saucepans, plates, and dishes flew everywhere. The Duchess barely noticed, and the baby’s howling made it impossible to tell if the blows were hurting it.

“Oh, _please_ mind what you’re doing!” I cried, jumping up and down in terror. “Oh, there goes his _precious_ nose!” as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, nearly taking it off.

“If everybody minded their own business,” the Duchess said in a hoarse growl, “the world would go round a deal faster than it does.”

“Which would _not_ be an advantage,” I said, glad to show off a little of my knowledge. “Just think of what work it would make with the day and night! You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis—”

“Talking of axes,” the Duchess interrupted, “chop off her head!”

I glanced anxiously at the cook, wondering if she would take the hint. But the cook was busy stirring the soup and didn’t seem to be listening. So I continued, “Twenty-four hours, I _think_; or is it twelve? I—”

“Oh, don’t bother _me_,” the Duchess said impatiently. “I never could abide figures!”


“Talking of axes,” the Duchess interrupted, “chop off her head!” I glanced anxiously at the cook, wondering if she would take the hint. But the cook was busy stirring the soup and didn’t seem to be listening. So I continued, “Twenty-four hours, I _think_; or is it twelve? I—”

“Oh, don’t bother _me_,” the Duchess said impatiently. “I never could abide figures!” And with that she began nursing her child again, singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at the end of every line:

“Speak roughly to your little boy,
    And beat him when he sneezes:
He only does it to annoy,
    Because he knows it teases.”

CHORUS.
(In which the cook and the baby joined):
“Wow! wow! wow!”

While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing howled so, that I could hardly hear the words:—

“I speak severely to my boy,
    I beat him when he sneezes;
For he can thoroughly enjoy
    The pepper when he pleases!”

CHORUS.
“Wow! wow! wow!”

“Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!” the Duchess said to me, flinging the baby at me as she spoke. “I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen,” and she hurried out of the room. The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out, but it just missed her.

I caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions, “just like a star-fish,” I thought. The poor little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when I caught it, and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again, so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much as I could do to hold it.

As soon as I had made out the proper way of nursing it, (which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent it from undoing itself,) I carried it out into the open air. “If I don’t take this child away with me,” I thought, “they’re sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldn’t it be murder to leave it behind?” I said the last words out loud, and the little thing grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).

“Don’t grunt,” I said; “that’s not at all a proper way of expressing yourself.”

The baby grunted again, and I looked very anxiously into its face to see what was the matter with it. There could be no doubt that it had a _very_ turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether I did not like the look of the thing at all. “But perhaps it was only sobbing,” I thought, and looked into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

No, there were no tears. “If you’re going to turn into a pig, my dear,” I said, seriously, “I’ll have nothing more to do with you. Mind now!” The poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it was impossible to say which), and we went on for some while in silence.

I was just beginning to think to myself, “Now, what am I to do with this creature when I get it home?” when it grunted again, so violently, that I looked down into its face in some alarm. This time there could be _no_ mistake about it: it was neither more nor less than a pig, and I felt that it would be quite absurd for me to carry it further.

So I set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to see it trot away quietly into the wood. “If it had grown up,” I said to myself, “it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes a rather pretty pig, I think.”


---

And she began thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as pigs, and was just saying to herself, “if one only knew the right way to change them—” when I was a little startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off. The Cat only grinned when it saw me. It looked good-natured, I thought: still it had very long claws and a great many teeth, so I felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

“Cheshire Puss,” I began, rather timidly, as I did not at all know whether it would like the name: however, it only grinned a little wider. “Come, it’s pleased so far,” I thought, and I went on. “Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?”

“That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the Cat.

“I don’t much care where—” I said.

“Then it doesn’t matter which way you go,” said the Cat.

“—so long as I get somewhere,” I added as an explanation.

“Oh, you’re sure to do that,” said the Cat, “if you only walk long enough.”

I felt that this could not be denied, so I tried another question. “What sort of people live about here?”

“In that direction,” the Cat said, waving its right paw round, “lives a Hatter: and in that direction,” waving the other paw, “lives a March Hare. Visit either you like: they’re both mad.”

“But I don’t want to go among mad people,” I remarked.

“Oh, you can’t help that,” said the Cat: “we’re all mad here. I’m mad. You’re mad.”

“How do you know I’m mad?” I said.

“You must be,” said the Cat, “or you wouldn’t have come here.”

I didn’t think that proved it at all; however, I went on “And how do you know that you’re mad?”

“To begin with,” said the Cat, “a dog’s not mad. You grant that?”

“I suppose so,” I said.

“Well, then,” the Cat went on, “you see, a dog growls when it’s angry, and wags its tail when it’s pleased. Now I growl when I’m pleased, and wag my tail when I’m angry. Therefore I’m mad.”

“I call it purring, not growling,” I said.

“Call it what you like,” said the Cat. “Do you play croquet with the Queen to-day?”

“I should like it very much,” I said, “but I haven’t been invited yet.”

“You’ll see me there,” said the Cat, and vanished.

I was not much surprised at this, I was getting so used to queer things happening. While I was looking at the place where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

“By-the-bye, what became of the baby?” said the Cat. “I’d nearly forgotten to ask.”

“It turned into a pig,” I quietly said, just as if it had come back in a natural way.

“I thought it would,” said the Cat, and vanished again.

I waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not appear, and after a minute or two I walked on in the direction in which the March Hare was said to live. “I’ve seen hatters before,” I said to myself; “the March Hare will be much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won’t be raving mad—at least not so mad as it was in March.” As I said this, I looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a branch of a tree.


---

“Did you say pig, or fig?” said the Cat.

“I said pig,” I replied; “and I wish you wouldn’t keep appearing and vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite giddy.”

“All right,” said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

“Well! I’ve often seen a cat without a grin,” I thought; “but a grin without a cat! It’s the most curious thing I ever saw in my life!”

---

I had not gone much farther before I came in sight of the house of the March Hare. I thought it must be the right house, because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur. It was so large a house, that I did not like to go nearer till I had nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom, and raised myself to about two feet high. Even then, I walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to myself, “Suppose it should be raving mad after all! I almost wish I’d gone to see the Hatter instead!”