

---

I found myself near a large rose-tree at the entrance of the garden. The roses on it were white, but three gardeners were busily painting them red. This seemed very curious to me, so I went closer to watch. As I approached, I heard one of them say, “Look out now, Five! Don’t go splashing paint over me like that!”

“I couldn’t help it,” said Five, in a sulky tone. “Seven jogged my elbow.”

Seven looked up and said, “That’s right, Five! Always lay the blame on others!”

“You’d better not talk!” said Five. “I heard the Queen say only yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!”

“What for?” asked the one who had spoken first.

“That’s none of your business, Two!” said Seven.

“Yes, it is his business!” said Five. “And I’ll tell him—it was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.”

Seven flung down his brush and was about to say, “Well, of all the unjust things—” when he noticed me standing there. The other gardeners looked around, and all of them bowed low.

“Would you tell me,” I said, a little timidly, “why you are painting those roses?”

Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two. Two began in a low voice, “Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to have been a red rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake; and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads cut off, you know. So you see, Miss, we’re doing our best, afore she comes, to—”

At that moment, Five, who had been anxiously looking across the garden, called out, “The Queen! The Queen!” The three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon their faces. I heard the sound of many footsteps and looked around, eager to see the Queen.

First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; they were all shaped like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at the corners. Next, the ten courtiers followed; they were ornamented all over with diamonds and walked two and two, as the soldiers did. After them came the royal children; there were ten of them, and they were all jumping merrily along hand in hand, in couples, and were all ornamented with hearts. Next came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them, I recognized the White Rabbit. It was talking in a hurried, nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without noticing me. Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the King’s crown on a crimson velvet cushion. Last of all this grand procession, came the King and Queen of Hearts.

I was rather doubtful whether I ought not to lie down on my face like the three gardeners, but I couldn’t remember ever having heard of such a rule at processions. “And besides, what would be the use of a procession,” I thought, “if people had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn’t see it?” So I stood still where I was and waited.

When the procession came opposite to me, they all stopped and looked at me. The Queen said severely, “Who is this?” She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.


---

“Idiot!” said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and, turning to Alice, she went on, “What’s your name, child?”

“My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,” I said very politely; but I added to myself, “Why, they’re only a pack of cards, after all. I needn’t be afraid of them!”

“And who are _these?_” said the Queen, pointing to the three gardeners who were lying round the rose-tree; for, you see, as they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her own children.

“How should _I_ know?” I said, surprised at my own courage. “It’s no business of _mine_.”

The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at me for a moment like a wild beast, screamed “Off with her head! Off—”

“Nonsense!” I said, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was silent.

The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said “Consider, my dear: she is only a child!”

The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave “Turn them over!”

The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.

“Get up!” said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.

“Leave off that!” screamed the Queen. “You make me giddy.” And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, “What _have_ you been doing here?”

“May it please your Majesty,” said Two, in a very humble tone, going down on one knee as he spoke, “we were trying—”

“_I_ see!” said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the roses. “Off with their heads!” and the procession moved on, three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners, who ran to me for protection.

“You shan’t be beheaded!” I said, and I put them into a large flower-pot that stood near. The three soldiers wandered about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the others.

“Are their heads off?” shouted the Queen.

“Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!” the soldiers shouted in reply.

“That’s right!” shouted the Queen. “Can you play croquet?”

The soldiers were silent, and looked at me, as the question was evidently meant for me.

“Yes!” I shouted.

“Come on, then!” roared the Queen, and I joined the procession, wondering very much what would happen next.

“It’s—it’s a very fine day!” said a timid voice at my side. I was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into my face.

“Very,” I said: “—where’s the Duchess?”

“Hush! Hush!” said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone. He looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to my ear, and whispered “She’s under sentence of execution.”

“What for?” I said.

“Did you say ‘What a pity!’?” the Rabbit asked.

“No, I didn’t,” I said: “I don’t think it’s at all a pity. I said ‘What for?’”

“She boxed the Queen’s ears—” the Rabbit began. I gave a little scream of laughter. “Oh, hush!” the Rabbit whispered in a frightened tone.


---

“She boxed the Queen’s ears—” the Rabbit began. I gave a little scream of laughter. “Oh, hush!” the Rabbit whispered in a frightened tone. “The Queen will hear you! You see, she came rather late, and the Queen said—”

“Get to your places!” shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder, and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or two, and the game began. I thought I had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in my life; it was all ridges and furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches. The chief difficulty I found at first was in managing my flamingo: I succeeded in getting its body tucked away, comfortably enough, under my arm, with its legs hanging down, but generally, just as I had got its neck nicely straightened out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it would twist itself round and look up in my face, with such a puzzled expression that I could not help bursting out laughing: and when I had got its head down, and was going to begin again, it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself, and was in the act of crawling away: besides all this, there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever I wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground, I soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed. The players all played at once without waiting for turns, quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and shouting “Off with his head!” or “Off with her head!” about once in a minute.

I began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, I had not as yet had any dispute with the Queen, but I knew that it might happen any minute, “and then,” I thought, “what would become of me? They’re dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great wonder is, that there’s any one left alive!”

I was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether I could get away without being seen, when I noticed a curious appearance in the air: it puzzled me very much at first, but, after watching it a minute or two, I made it out to be a grin, and I said to myself “It’s the Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk to.”

“How are you getting on?” said the Cat, as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with.

I waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. “It’s no use speaking to it,” I thought, “till its ears have come, or at least one of them.” In another minute the whole head appeared, and then I put down my flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad I had someone to listen to me. The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and no more of it appeared.

“I don’t think they play at all fairly,” I began, in rather a complaining tone, “and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can’t hear oneself speak—and they don’t seem to have any rules in particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them—and you’ve no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive; for instance, there’s the arch I’ve got to go through next walking about at the other end of the


---

I waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. “It’s no use speaking to it,” I thought, “till its ears have come, or at least one of them.” In another minute the whole head appeared, and then I put down my flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad I had someone to listen to me. The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and no more of it appeared.

“I don’t think they play at all fairly,” I began, in rather a complaining tone, “and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can’t hear oneself speak—and they don’t seem to have any rules in particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them—and you’ve no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive; for instance, there’s the arch I’ve got to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground—and I should have croqueted the Queen’s hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it saw mine coming!”

“How do you like the Queen?” the Cat asked in a low voice.

“Not at all,” I said: “she’s so extremely—” Just then I noticed that the Queen was close behind me, listening: so I went on, “—likely to win, that it’s hardly worth while finishing the game.”

The Queen smiled and passed on.

“Who _are_ you talking to?” the King asked, going up to me and looking at the Cat’s head with great curiosity.

“It’s a friend of mine—a Cheshire Cat,” I said: “allow me to introduce it.”

“I don’t like the look of it at all,” the King said: “however, it may kiss my hand if it likes.”

“I’d rather not,” the Cat remarked.

“Don’t be impertinent,” the King said, “and don’t look at me like that!” He got behind me as he spoke.

“A cat may look at a king,” I said. “I’ve read that in some book, but I don’t remember where.”

“Well, it must be removed,” the King said very decidedly, and he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, “My dear! I wish you would have this cat removed!”

The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great or small. “Off with his head!” she said, without even looking round.

“I’ll fetch the executioner myself,” the King eagerly said, and he hurried off.

I thought I might as well go back, and see how the game was going on, as I heard the Queen’s voice in the distance, screaming with passion. I had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and I didn’t like the look of things at all, as the game was in such confusion that I never knew whether it was my turn or not. So I went in search of my hedgehog.

The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed to me an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other: the only difficulty was, that my flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where I could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree.

By the time I had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight: “but it doesn’t matter much,” I thought, “as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground.” So I tucked it away under my arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with my friend.

When I got back to the Cheshire Cat, I was surprised to find quite a large crowd collected round it: there was a dispute going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent, and looked very uncomfortable.

The moment I appeared, I was appealed to by all three to settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to me, though, as they all spoke at once, I found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said.

The executioner’s argument was, that you couldn’t cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn’t going to begin at his time of life.


The King’s argument was, that anything that had a head could be beheaded, and that you weren’t to talk nonsense. The Queen’s argument was, that if something wasn’t done about it in less than no time she’d have everybody executed, all round. This last remark made everyone look so grave and anxious. I could think of nothing else to say but “It belongs to the Duchess: you’d better ask _her_ about it.”

The Queen turned to the executioner and said, “She’s in prison,” and then ordered, “fetch her here.” The executioner nodded and went off like an arrow.

As soon as he was gone, the Cat’s head began fading away. By the time the executioner returned with the Duchess, the Cat’s head had entirely disappeared. The King and the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.