

---

“You can’t think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!” said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into mine, and we walked off together. I was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and thought to myself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so savage when we met in the kitchen.

“When _I’m_ a Duchess,” I said to myself, (not in a very hopeful tone though), “I won’t have any pepper in my kitchen _at all_. Soup does very well without—Maybe it’s always pepper that makes people hot-tempered,” I went on, very much pleased at having found out a new kind of rule, “and vinegar that makes them sour—and camomile that makes them bitter—and—and barley-sugar and such things that make children sweet-tempered. I only wish people knew _that_: then they wouldn’t be so stingy about it, you know—”

I had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a little startled when I heard her voice close to my ear. “You’re thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you forget to talk. I can’t tell you just now what the moral of that is, but I shall remember it in a bit.”

“Perhaps it hasn’t one,” I ventured to remark.

“Tut, tut, child!” said the Duchess. “Everything’s got a moral, if only you can find it.” And she squeezed herself up closer to my side as she spoke.

I did not much like keeping so close to her: first, because the Duchess was _very_ ugly; and secondly, because she was exactly the right height to rest her chin upon my shoulder, and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin. However, I did not like to be rude, so I bore it as well as I could.

“The game’s going on rather better now,” I said, by way of keeping up the conversation a little.

“’Tis so,” said the Duchess: “and the moral of that is—‘Oh, ’tis love, ’tis love, that makes the world go round!’”

“Somebody said,” I whispered, “that it’s done by everybody minding their own business!”

“Ah, well! It means much the same thing,” said the Duchess, digging her sharp little chin into my shoulder as she added, “and the moral of _that_ is—‘Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of themselves.’”

“How fond she is of finding morals in things!” I thought to myself.

“I dare say you’re wondering why I don’t put my arm round your waist,” the Duchess said after a pause: “the reason is, that I’m doubtful about the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try the experiment?”

“He might bite,” I cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious to have the experiment tried.

“Very true,” said the Duchess: “flamingoes and mustard both bite. And the moral of that is—‘Birds of a feather flock together.’”

“Only mustard isn’t a bird,” I remarked.

“Right, as usual,” said the Duchess: “what a clear way you have of putting things!”

“It’s a mineral, I _think_,” I said.

“Of course it is,” said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to everything that I said; “there’s a large mustard-mine near here. And the moral of that is—‘The more there is of mine, the less there is of yours.’”

“Oh, I know!” I exclaimed, who had not attended to this last remark, “it’s a vegetable. It doesn’t look like one, but it is.”

“I quite agree with you,” said the Duchess; “and the moral of that is—‘The more there is of yours, the less there is of mine.’”


---

“Of course it is,” said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to everything that I said; “there’s a large mustard-mine near here. And the moral of that is—‘The more there is of mine, the less there is of yours.’”

“Oh, I know!” I exclaimed, who had not attended to this last remark, “it’s a vegetable. It doesn’t look like one, but it is.”

“I quite agree with you,” said the Duchess; “and the moral of that is—‘The more there is of yours, the less there is of mine.’”

“I think I should understand that better,” I said very politely, “if I had it written down: but I can’t quite follow it as you say it.”

“That’s nothing to what I could say if I chose,” the Duchess replied, in a pleased tone.

“Pray don’t trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,” I said.

“Oh, don’t talk about trouble!” said the Duchess. “I make you a present of everything I’ve said as yet.”

“A cheap sort of present!” I thought. “I’m glad they don’t give birthday presents like that!” But I did not venture to say it out loud.

“Thinking again?” the Duchess asked, with another dig of her sharp little chin.

“I’ve a right to think,” I said sharply, for I was beginning to feel a little worried.

“Just about as much right,” said the Duchess, “as pigs have to fly; and the m—”

But here, to my great surprise, the Duchess’s voice died away, even in the middle of her favourite word ‘moral,’ and the arm that was linked into mine began to tremble. I looked up, and there stood the Queen in front of us, with her arms folded, frowning like a thunderstorm.

“A fine day, your Majesty!” the Duchess began in a low, weak voice.

“Now, I give you fair warning,” shouted the Queen, stamping on the ground as she spoke; “either you or your head must be off, and that in about half no time! Take your choice!”

The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

“Let’s go on with the game,” the Queen said to me; and I was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her back to the croquet-ground.

The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen’s absence, and were resting in the shade: however, the moment they saw her, they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a moment’s delay would cost them their lives.

All the time they were playing, the Queen never left off quarrelling with the other players, and shouting “Off with his head!” or “Off with her head!” Those whom she sentenced were taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the King, the Queen, and me, were in custody and under sentence of execution.

Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to me, “Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?”

“No,” I said. “I don’t even know what a Mock Turtle is.”

“It’s the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,” said the Queen.

“I never saw one, or heard of one,” I said.

“Come on, then,” said the Queen, “and he shall tell you his history.”

As we walked off together, I heard the King say in a low voice, to the company generally, “You are all pardoned.” “Come, _that’s_ a good thing!” I said to myself, for I had felt quite unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

We very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the sun. (If you don’t know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.) “Up, lazy thing!” said the Queen, “and take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history. I must go back and see after some executions I have ordered.”


---

I watched as the Queen walked off, leaving me alone with the Gryphon. I did not quite like the look of the creature, but on the whole, I thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage Queen. So I waited.

The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes. Then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight. Then it chuckled. "What fun!" said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to me.

"What _is_ the fun?" I asked.

"Why, _she_," said the Gryphon. "It’s all her fancy, that: they never executes nobody, you know. Come on!"

"Everybody says ‘come on!’ here," I thought to myself, as I went slowly after it. "I never was so ordered about in all my life, never!"

We had not gone far before we saw the Mock Turtle in the distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock. As we came nearer, I could hear him sighing as if his heart would break. I pitied him deeply. "What is his sorrow?" I asked the Gryphon.

The Gryphon answered, very nearly in the same words as before, "It’s all his fancy, that: he hasn’t got no sorrow, you know. Come on!"

So we went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at us with large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

"This here young lady," said the Gryphon, "she wants for to know your history, she do."

The Mock Turtle spoke in a deep, hollow tone: "I’ll tell it her. Sit down, both of you, and don’t speak a word till I’ve finished."

So we sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. I thought to myself, "I don’t see how he can _ever_ finish, if he doesn’t begin." But I waited patiently.

"Once," said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, "I was a real Turtle."


---

“_I’ve_ been to a day-school, too,” I said, trying to match the Mock Turtle’s tone. “You needn’t be so proud as all that.”

“With extras?” the Mock Turtle asked, a little anxiously.

“Yes,” I replied, “we learned French and music.”

“And washing?” the Mock Turtle inquired.

“Certainly not!” I said indignantly.

“Ah! then yours wasn’t a really good school,” the Mock Turtle said in a tone of great relief. “Now at _ours_ they had at the end of the bill, ‘French, music, _and washing_—extra.’”

“You couldn’t have wanted it much,” I said; “living at the bottom of the sea.”

“I couldn’t afford to learn it,” the Mock Turtle sighed. “I only took the regular course.”

“What was that?” I inquired.

“Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,” the Mock Turtle replied; “and then the different branches of Arithmetic—Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.”

“I never heard of ‘Uglification,’” I ventured to say. “What is it?”

The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise. “What! Never heard of uglifying!” it exclaimed. “You know what to beautify is, I suppose?”

“Yes,” I said doubtfully: “it means—to—make—anything—prettier.”

“Well, then,” the Gryphon went on, “if you don’t know what to uglify is, you _are_ a simpleton.”

I did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so I turned to the Mock Turtle and said, “What else had you to learn?”

“Well, there was Mystery,” the Mock Turtle replied, counting off the subjects on his flappers, “—Mystery, ancient and modern, with Seaography: then Drawling—the Drawling-master was an old conger-eel, that used to come once a week: _he_ taught us Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.”

“What was _that_ like?” I said.

“Well, I can’t show it you myself,” the Mock Turtle said: “I’m too stiff. And the Gryphon never learnt it.”

“Hadn’t time,” the Gryphon said: “I went to the Classics master, though. He was an old crab, _he_ was.”

“I never went to him,” the Mock Turtle said with a sigh: “he taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.”

“So he did, so he did,” the Gryphon sighed in his turn; and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

“And how many hours a day did you do lessons?” I said, in a hurry to change the subject.

“Ten hours the first day,” the Mock Turtle said: “nine the next, and so on.”

“What a curious plan!” I exclaimed.

“That’s the reason they’re called lessons,” the Gryphon remarked: “because they lessen from day to day.”

This was quite a new idea to me, and I thought it over a little before I made my next remark. “Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday?”

“Of course it was,” the Mock Turtle said.

“And how did you manage on the twelfth?” I went on eagerly.

“That’s enough about lessons,” the Gryphon interrupted in a very decided tone: “tell her something about the games now.”