

---

I was beginning to get very tired of sitting by my sister on the bank, and of having nothing to do. Once or twice, I had peeped into the book she was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in it. "And what is the use of a book," I thought, "without pictures or conversations?"

So I was considering in my own mind (as well as I could, for the hot day made me feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by me.

There was nothing so very remarkable in that; nor did I think it so very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, "Oh dear! Oh dear! I shall be late!" (When I thought it over afterwards, it occurred to me that I ought to have wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural); but when the Rabbit actually took a watch out of its waistcoat-pocket, and looked at it, and then hurried on, I started to my feet, for it flashed across my mind that I had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, I ran across the field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

In another moment, down I went after it, never once considering how in the world I was to get out again.

The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that I had not a moment to think about stopping myself before I found myself falling down a very deep well.

Either the well was very deep, or I fell very slowly, for I had plenty of time as I went down to look about me and to wonder what was going to happen next. First, I tried to look down and make out what I was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then I looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves; here and there I saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs. I took down a jar from one of the shelves as I passed; it was labelled "ORANGE MARMALADE", but to my great disappointment, it was empty: I did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing somebody underneath, so I managed to put it into one of the cupboards as I fell past it.

"Well!" I thought to myself, "after such a fall as this, I shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs! How brave they’ll all think me at home! Why, I wouldn’t say anything about it, even if I fell off the top of the house!" (Which was very likely true.)

Down, down, down. Would the fall never come to an end? "I wonder how many miles I’ve fallen by this time?" I said aloud. "I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let me see: that would be four thousand miles down, I think—" (for, you see, I had learnt several things of this sort in my lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a very good opportunity for showing off my knowledge, as there was no one to listen to me, still it was good practice to say it over) "—yes, that’s about the right distance—but then I wonder what Latitude or Longitude I’ve got to?" (I had no idea what Latitude was, or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to say.)


Presently she began again. “I wonder if I shall fall right _through_ the earth! How funny it’ll seem to come out among the people that walk with their heads downward! The Antipathies, I think—” (she was rather glad there _was_ no one listening, this time, as it didn’t sound at all the right word) “—but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know. Please, Ma’am, is this New Zealand or Australia?” (and she tried to curtsey as she spoke—fancy _curtseying_ as you’re falling through the air! Do you think you could manage it?) “And what an ignorant little girl she’ll think me for asking! No, it’ll never do to ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.”

Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so I soon began talking again. “Dinah’ll miss me very much to-night, I should think!” (Dinah was the cat.) “I hope they’ll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are no mice in the air, I’m afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that’s very like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder?” And here I began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to myself, in a dreamy sort of way, “Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats?” and sometimes, “Do bats eat cats?” for, you see, as I couldn’t answer either question, it didn’t much matter which way I put it. I felt that I was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that I was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very earnestly, “Now, Dinah, tell me the truth: did you ever eat a bat?” when suddenly, thump! thump! down I came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

I was not a bit hurt, and I jumped up on to my feet in a moment: I looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before me was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down it. There was not a moment to be lost: away I went like the wind, and was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner, “Oh my ears and whiskers, how late it’s getting!” I was close behind it when I turned the corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen: I found myself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof.

There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when I had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every door, I walked sadly down the middle, wondering how I was ever to get out again.

Suddenly I came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and my first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second time round, I came upon a low curtain I had not noticed before, and behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: I tried the little golden key in the lock, and to my great delight it fitted!


I opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not much larger than a rat-hole. I knelt down and looked along the passage into the loveliest garden I ever saw. How I longed to get out of that dark hall and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains. But I could not even get my head through the doorway. "And even if my head would go through," I thought, "it would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish I could shut up like a telescope! I think I could, if I only knew how to begin." For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things had happened lately, that I had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible.

There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so I went back to the table, half hoping I might find another key on it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes. This time I found a little bottle on it. "Which certainly was not here before," I said to myself. Round the neck of the bottle was a paper label, with the words "DRINK ME," beautifully printed on it in large letters.

It was all very well to say "Drink me," but the wise little Alice was not going to do that in a hurry. "No, I’ll look first," I said, "and see whether it’s marked ‘poison’ or not"; for I had read several nice little histories about children who had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things, all because they would not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them: such as, that a red-hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your finger very deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and I had never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked "poison," it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or later.

However, this bottle was not marked "poison," so I ventured to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) I very soon finished it off.

"What a curious feeling!" I said; "I must be shutting up like a telescope." And so it was indeed: I was now only ten inches high, and my face brightened up at the thought that I was now the right size for going through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, I waited for a few minutes to see if I was going to shrink any further. I felt a little nervous about this; "for it might end," I said to myself, "in my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder what I should be like then?" And I tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out, for I could not remember ever having seen such a thing.

After a while, finding that nothing more happened, I decided on going into the garden at once. But, alas for poor Alice! When I got to the door, I found I had forgotten the little golden key. When I went back to the table for it, I found I could not possibly reach.


“What a curious feeling!” I said; “I must be shutting up like a telescope.” And so it was indeed: I was now only ten inches high, and my face brightened up at the thought that I was now the right size for going through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, I waited for a few minutes to see if I was going to shrink any further. I felt a little nervous about this; “for it might end,” I said to myself, “in my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder what I should be like then?” And I tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out, for I could not remember ever having seen such a thing.

After a while, finding that nothing more happened, I decided on going into the garden at once. But, alas for poor Alice! When I got to the door, I found I had forgotten the little golden key. When I went back to the table for it, I found I could not possibly reach.

it: she could see it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and cried.

“Come, there’s no use in crying like that!” said Alice to herself, rather sharply; “I advise you to leave off this minute!” She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious child was very fond of pretending to be two people. “But it’s no use now,” thought poor Alice, “to pretend to be two people! Why, there’s hardly enough of me left to make _one_ respectable person!”

Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table: she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which the words “EAT ME” were beautifully marked in currants. “Well, I’ll eat it,” said Alice, “and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep under the door; so either way I’ll get into the garden, and I don’t care which happens!”

She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, “Which way? Which way?”, holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way.

So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.


---

“Curiouser and curiouser!” I cried, so surprised that I forgot how to speak properly. “Now I’m opening out like the largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye, feet!” I looked down and my feet seemed almost out of sight, they were so far off. “Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? I’m sure I shan’t be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you: you must manage the best way you can;—but I must be kind to them,” I thought. “Or perhaps they won’t walk the way I want to go! Let me see: I’ll give them a new pair of boots every Christmas.”

I went on planning how I would manage it. “They must go by the carrier,” I thought. “And how funny it’ll seem, sending presents to one’s own feet! And how odd the directions will look!”

_Alice’s Right Foot, Esq., Hearthrug, near the Fender,_ (_with Alice’s love_).

“Oh dear, what nonsense I’m talking!”

Just then my head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact, I was now more than nine feet high, and I at once took up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

Poor me! It was as much as I could do, lying down on one side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more hopeless than ever. I sat down and began to cry again.

“You ought to be ashamed of yourself,” I said to myself, “a great girl like you, to go on crying in this way! Stop this moment, I tell you!” But I went on all the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool all round me, about four inches deep and reaching half down the hall.

After a time, I heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and I hastily dried my eyes to see what was coming. It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other. He came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to himself, “Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won’t she be savage if I’ve kept her waiting!”

I felt so desperate that I was ready to ask help of anyone. So, when the Rabbit came near me, I began, in a low, timid voice, “If you please, sir—” The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go.

I took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, I kept fanning myself all the time I went on talking. “Dear, dear! How queer everything is to-day! And yesterday things went on just as usual. I wonder if I’ve been changed in the night? Let me think: was I the same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a little different. But if I’m not the same, the next question is, Who in the world am I? Ah, that’s the great puzzle!” I began thinking over all the children I knew that were of the same age as myself, to see if I could have been changed for any of them.


---

“I’m sure I’m not Ada,” I said, “for her hair goes in such long ringlets, and mine doesn’t go in ringlets at all; and I’m sure I can’t be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a very little! Besides, _she’s_ she, and _I’m_ I, and—oh dear, how puzzling it all is! I’ll try if I know all the things I used to know. Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is—oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate! However, the Multiplication Table doesn’t signify: let’s try Geography. London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Rome—no, _that’s_ all wrong, I’m certain! I must have been changed for Mabel! I’ll try and say ‘_How doth the little_—’” and I crossed my hands on my lap as if I were saying lessons, and began to repeat it, but my voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:—
“How doth the little crocodile
    Improve his shining tail,
And pour the waters of the Nile
    On every golden scale!
“How cheerfully he seems to grin,
    How neatly spread his claws,
And welcome little fishes in
    With gently smiling jaws!”
“I’m sure those are not the right words,” I said, and my eyes filled with tears again as I went on, “I must be Mabel after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many lessons to learn! No, I’ve made up my mind about it; if I’m Mabel, I’ll stay down here! It’ll be no use their putting their heads down and saying ‘Come up again, dear!’ I shall only look up and say ‘Who am I then? Tell me that first, and then, if I like being that person, I’ll come up: if not, I’ll stay down here till I’m somebody else’—but, oh dear!” I cried, with a sudden burst of tears, “I do wish they _would_ put their heads down! I am so _very_ tired of being all alone here!”

As I said this, I looked down at my hands, and was surprised to see that I had put on one of the Rabbit’s little white kid gloves while I was talking. “How _can_ I have done that?” I thought. “I must be growing small again.” I got up and went to the table to measure myself by it, and found that, as nearly as I could guess, I was now about two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly: I soon found out that the cause of this was the fan I was holding, and I dropped it hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
“That _was_ a narrow escape!” I said, a good deal frightened at the sudden change, but very glad to find myself still in existence; “and now for the garden!” I ran with all speed back to the little door: but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before, “and things are worse than ever,” I thought, “for I never was so small as this before, never! And I declare it’s too bad, that it is!”

As I said these words, my foot slipped, and in another moment, splash! I was up to my chin in salt water. My first idea was that I had somehow fallen into the sea, “and in that case I can go back by…”


---

As I said these words, my foot slipped, and in another moment, splash! I was up to my chin in salt water. My first idea was that I had somehow fallen into the sea, “and in that case I can go back by…”

“I wish I hadn’t cried so much!” I said to myself as I swam about, trying to find my way out. “I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by being drowned in my own tears! That _will_ be a queer thing, to be sure! However, everything is queer to-day.”

Just then I heard something splashing about in the pool a little way off, and I swam nearer to make out what it was. At first, I thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then I remembered how small I was now, and I soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like myself.

“Would it be of any use, now,” I thought, “to speak to this mouse? Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should think very likely it can talk: at any rate, there’s no harm in trying.” So I began: “O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!” (I thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse: I had never done such a thing before, but I remembered having seen in my brother’s Latin Grammar, “A mouse—of a mouse—to a mouse—a mouse—O mouse!”) The Mouse looked at me rather inquisitively, and seemed to me to wink with one of its little eyes, but it said nothing.

“Perhaps it doesn’t understand English,” I thought; “I daresay it’s a French mouse, come over with William the Conqueror.” (For, with all my knowledge of history, I had no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.) So I began again: “Où est ma chatte?” which was the first sentence in my French lesson-book. The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright. “Oh, I beg your pardon!” I cried hastily, afraid that I had hurt the poor animal’s feelings. “I quite forgot you didn’t like cats.”

“Not like cats!” cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice. “Would _you_ like cats if you were me?”

“Well, perhaps not,” I said in a soothing tone: “don’t be angry about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think you’d take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear quiet thing,” I went on, half to myself, as I swam lazily about in the pool, “and she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face—and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse—and she’s such a capital one for catching mice—oh, I beg your pardon!” I cried again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and I felt certain it must be really offended. “We won’t talk about her any more if you’d rather not.”

“We indeed!” cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his tail. “As if _I_ would talk on such a subject! Our family always _hated_ cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don’t let me hear the name again!”

“I won’t indeed!” I said, in a great hurry to change the subject.


---

“Are you—are you fond—of—of dogs?” I asked the Mouse, hoping to change the subject. The Mouse didn’t answer, so I continued eagerly, “There is such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you! A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly brown hair! And it’ll fetch things when you throw them, and it’ll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things—I can’t remember half of them—and it belongs to a farmer, you know, and he says it’s so useful, it’s worth a hundred pounds! He says it kills all the rats and—oh dear!” I cried in a sorrowful tone, realizing I might have offended the Mouse again. It was swimming away from me as hard as it could go, making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

So I called softly after it, “Mouse dear! Do come back again, and we won’t talk about cats or dogs either, if you don’t like them!” When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to me. Its face was quite pale, and it said in a low trembling voice, “Let us get to the shore, and then I’ll tell you my history, and you’ll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.”

It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with the birds and animals that had fallen into it. There were a Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. I led the way, and the whole party swam to the shore.


---

They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank—the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable. I looked around at the Mouse, the Duck, the Dodo, the Lory, and the Eaglet. We were quite a sight, and I couldn't help but feel a bit out of place among them.

The first question of course was, how to get dry again: they had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural to me to find myself talking familiarly with them, as if I had known them all my life. I had quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, “I am older than you, and must know better;” and this I would not allow without knowing how old it was, and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no more to be said.

At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among them, called out, “Sit down, all of you, and listen to me! _I’ll_ soon make you dry enough!” They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the Mouse in the middle. I kept my eyes anxiously fixed on it, for I felt sure I would catch a bad cold if I did not get dry very soon.

“Ahem!” said the Mouse with an important air, “are you all ready? This is the driest thing I know. Silence all round, if you please! ‘William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria—’”

“Ugh!” said the Lory, with a shiver.

“I beg your pardon!” said the Mouse, frowning, but very politely: “Did you speak?”

“Not I!” said the Lory hastily.

“I thought you did,” said the Mouse. “—I proceed. ‘Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him: and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable—’”

“Found _what_?” said the Duck.

“Found _it_,” the Mouse replied rather crossly: “of course you know what ‘it’ means.”

“I know what ‘it’ means well enough, when _I_ find a thing,” said the Duck: “it’s generally a frog or a worm. The question is, what did the archbishop find?”

The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on, “‘—found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the crown. William’s conduct at first was moderate. But the insolence of his Normans—’ How are you getting on now, my dear?” it continued, turning to me as it spoke.

“As wet as ever,” I said in a melancholy tone: “it doesn’t seem to dry me at all.”

“In that case,” said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, “I move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more energetic remedies—”

“Speak English!” said the Eaglet. “I don’t know the meaning of half those long words, and, what’s more, I don’t believe you do either!” And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile: some of the other birds tittered audibly.

“What I was going to say,” said the Dodo in an offended tone, “was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.”

“What _is_ a Caucus-race?” I said; not that I wanted much to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that _somebody_ ought to.


“Speak English!” said the Eaglet. “I don’t know the meaning of half those long words, and, what’s more, I don’t believe you do either!” The Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile, and some of the other birds tittered audibly.

“What I was going to say,” said the Dodo in an offended tone, “was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.”

“What _is_ a Caucus-race?” I said; not that I wanted much to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that _somebody_ ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

“Why,” said the Dodo, “the best way to explain it is to do it.” (And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

First, it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (“the exact shape doesn’t matter,” it said,) and then all the party were placed along the course, here and there. There was no “One, two, three, and away,” but they began running when they liked, and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know when the race was over. However, when they had been running half an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called out “The race is over!” and they all crowded round it, panting, and asking, “But who has won?”

This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence. At last the Dodo said, “_Everybody_ has won, and all must have prizes.”

“But who is to give the prizes?” quite a chorus of voices asked.

“Why, _she_, of course,” said the Dodo, pointing to me with one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round me, calling out in a confused way, “Prizes! Prizes!”

I had no idea what to do, and in despair, I put my hand in my pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly one a-piece, all round.

“But she must have a prize herself, you know,” said the Mouse.

“Of course,” the Dodo replied very gravely. “What else have you got in your pocket?” he went on, turning to me.

“Only a thimble,” I said sadly.

“Hand it over here,” said the Dodo.

Then they all crowded round me once more, while the Dodo solemnly presented the thimble, saying “We beg your acceptance of this elegant thimble;” and, when it had finished this short speech, they all cheered.

I thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave that I did not dare to laugh; and, as I could not think of anything to say, I simply bowed, and took the thimble, looking as solemn as I could.

The next thing was to eat the comfits: this caused some noise and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back. However, it was over at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

“You promised to tell me your history, you know,” I said to the Mouse, “and why it is you hate—C and D,” I added in a whisper, half afraid that it would be offended again.

“Mine is a long and a sad tale!” said the Mouse, turning to me and sighing.

“It _is_ a long tail, certainly,” I said, looking down with wonder at the Mouse’s tail; “but why do you call it sad?” And I kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so that my idea of the tale was something like this:—

         “Fury said to a mouse, That he met in the house, ‘Let us both
         go to law: _I_ will prosecute _you_.—Come, I’ll take no



---

“You are not attending!” said the Mouse to Alice severely. “What are you thinking of?”

“I beg your pardon,” I said very humbly. “You had got to the fifth bend, I think?”

“I had _not!_” cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

“A knot!” I said, always ready to make myself useful, and looking anxiously about me. “Oh, do let me help to undo it!”

“I shall do nothing of the sort,” said the Mouse, getting up and walking away. “You insult me by talking such nonsense!”

“I didn’t mean it!” I pleaded. “But you’re so easily offended, you know!”

The Mouse only growled in reply.

“Please come back and finish your story!” I called after it; and the others all joined in chorus, “Yes, please do!” but the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker.

“What a pity it wouldn’t stay!” sighed the Lory, as soon as it was quite out of sight. An old Crab took the opportunity of saying to her daughter, “Ah, my dear! Let this be a lesson to you never to lose _your_ temper!”

“Hold your tongue, Ma!” said the young Crab, a little snappishly. “You’re enough to try the patience of an oyster!”

“I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!” I said aloud, addressing nobody in particular. “She’d soon fetch it back!”

“And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?” said the Lory.

I replied eagerly, for I was always ready to talk about my pet. “Dinah’s our cat. And she’s such a capital one for catching mice you can’t think! And oh, I wish you could see her after the birds! Why, she’ll eat a little bird as soon as look at it!”

This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party. Some of the birds hurried off at once. One old Magpie began wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, “I really must be getting home; the night-air doesn’t suit my throat!” A Canary called out in a trembling voice to its children, “Come away, my dears! It’s high time you were all in bed!” On various pretexts, they all moved off, and I was soon left alone.

“I wish I hadn’t mentioned Dinah!” I said to myself in a melancholy tone. “Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I’m sure she’s the best cat in the world! Oh, my dear Dinah! I wonder if I shall ever see you any more!” And here, poor me, I began to cry again, for I felt very lonely and low-spirited. In a little while, however, I again heard a little pattering of footsteps in the distance, and I looked up eagerly, half hoping that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to finish his story.


---

It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something. I heard it muttering to itself, “The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my dear paws! Oh my fur and whiskers! She’ll get me executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets! Where _can_ I have dropped them, I wonder?” I guessed in a moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves. I very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were nowhere to be seen—everything seemed to have changed since my swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the little door, had vanished completely.

Very soon the Rabbit noticed me, as I went hunting about, and called out to me in an angry tone, “Why, Mary Ann, what _are_ you doing out here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan! Quick, now!” I was so much frightened that I ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake it had made.

“He took me for his housemaid,” I said to myself as I ran. “How surprised he’ll be when he finds out who I am! But I’d better take him his fan and gloves—that is, if I can find them.” As I said this, I came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name “W. RABBIT,” engraved upon it. I went in without knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great fear lest I should meet the real Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house before I had found the fan and gloves.

“How queer it seems,” I said to myself, “to be going messages for a rabbit! I suppose Dinah’ll be sending me on messages next!” And I began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: “‘Miss Alice! Come here directly, and get ready for your walk!’ ‘Coming in a minute, nurse! But I’ve got to see that the mouse doesn’t get out.’ Only I don’t think,” I went on, “that they’d let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering people about like that!”

By this time I had found my way into a tidy little room with a table in the window, and on it (as I had hoped) a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves. I took up the fan and a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when my eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-glass. There was no label this time with the words “DRINK ME,” but nevertheless I uncorked it and put it to my lips. “I know _something_ interesting is sure to happen,” I said to myself, “whenever I eat or drink anything; so I’ll just see what this bottle does. I do hope it’ll make me grow large again, for really I’m quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!”

It did so indeed, and much sooner than I had expected: before I had drunk half the bottle, I found my head pressing against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save my neck from being broken. I hastily put down the bottle, saying to myself “That’s quite enough—I hope I shan’t grow any more—As it is, I can’t get out at the door—I do wish I hadn’t.”


---

It did so indeed, and much sooner than I had expected: before I had drunk half the bottle, I found my head pressing against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save my neck from being broken. I hastily put down the bottle, saying to myself “That’s quite enough—I hope I shan’t grow any more—As it is, I can’t get out at the door—I do wish I hadn’t drunk quite so much!” Alas! it was too late to wish that! I went on growing, and growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor: in another minute there was not even room for this, and I tried the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the other arm curled round my head. Still I went on growing, and, as a last resource, I put one arm out of the window, and one foot up the chimney, and said to myself “Now I can do no more, whatever happens. What _will_ become of me?”

Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect, and I grew no larger: still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of my ever getting out of the room again, no wonder I felt unhappy. “It was much pleasanter at home,” I thought, “when one wasn’t always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about by mice and rabbits. I almost wish I hadn’t gone down that rabbit-hole—and yet—and yet—it’s rather curious, you know, this sort of life! I do wonder what _can_ have happened to me! When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one! There ought to be a book written about me, that there ought! And when I grow up, I’ll write one—but I’m grown up now,” I added in a sorrowful tone; “at least there’s no room to grow up any more _here_.”

“But then,” I thought, “shall I _never_ get any older than I am now? That’ll be a comfort, one way—never to be an old woman—but then—always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I shouldn’t like _that!_” “Oh, you foolish Alice!” I answered myself. “How can you learn lessons in here? Why, there’s hardly room for _you_, and no room at all for any lesson-books!” And so I went on, taking first one side and then the other, and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few minutes I heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

“Mary Ann! Mary Ann!” said the voice. “Fetch me my gloves this moment!” Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs. I knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for me, and I trembled till I shook the house, quite forgetting that I was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it. Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it; but, as the door opened inwards, and my elbow was pressed hard against it, that attempt proved a failure. I heard it say to itself “Then I’ll go round and get in at the window.” “_That_ you won’t!” I thought, and, after waiting till I fancied I heard the Rabbit just under the window, I suddenly spread out my hand, and made a snatch in the air. I did not get hold of anything, but I heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass, from which I concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something of the sort.

Next came an angry voice—the Rabbit’s—“Pat! Pat! Where are you?” And then a voice I had never heard before, “Sure then I’m here! Digging for apples, yer honour!” “Digging for apples, indeed!” said the Rabbit angrily. “Here! Come and help me out of _this!_” (Sounds of more broken glass.) “Now tell me, Pat, what’s that in the window?”


---

“Sure, it’s an arm, yer honour!” Pat’s voice echoed, pronouncing it “arrum.”

“An arm, you goose! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it fills the whole window!” the Rabbit retorted angrily.

“Sure, it does, yer honour: but it’s an arm for all that.”

“Well, it’s got no business there, at any rate: go and take it away!”

There was a long silence after this, and I could only hear whispers now and then; such as, “Sure, I don’t like it, yer honour, at all, at all!” “Do as I tell you, you coward!” and at last I spread out my hand again, and made another snatch in the air. This time there were two little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass. “What a number of cucumber-frames there must be!” I thought. “I wonder what they’ll do next! As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they could! I’m sure I don’t want to stay in here any longer!”

She waited for some time without hearing anything more: at last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a good many voices all talking together: she made out the words: “Where’s the other ladder?—Why, I hadn’t to bring but one; Bill’s got the other—Bill! fetch it here, lad!—Here, put ’em up at this corner—No, tie ’em together first—they don’t reach half high enough yet—Oh! they’ll do well enough; don’t be particular—Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope—Will the roof bear?—Mind that loose slate—Oh, it’s coming down! Heads below!” (a loud crash)—“Now, who did that?—It was Bill, I fancy—Who’s to go down the chimney?—Nay, I shan’t! You do it!—That I won’t, then!—Bill’s to go down—Here, Bill! the master says you’re to go down the chimney!”

“Oh! So Bill’s got to come down the chimney, has he?” I said to myself. “Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I wouldn’t be in Bill’s place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow, to be sure; but I think I can kick a little!”

I drew my foot as far down the chimney as I could, and waited till I heard a little animal (I couldn’t guess of what sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above me: then, saying to myself “This is Bill,” I gave one sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

The first thing I heard was a general chorus of “There goes Bill!” then the Rabbit’s voice along—“Catch him, you by the hedge!” then silence, and then another confusion of voices—“Hold up his head—Brandy now—Don’t choke him—How was it, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell us all about it!”

Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (“That’s Bill,” I thought,) “Well, I hardly know—No more, thank ye; I’m better now—but I’m a deal too flustered to tell you—all I know is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a sky-rocket!”

“So you did, old fellow!” said the others.

“We must burn the house down!” said the Rabbit’s voice; and I called out as loud as I could, “If you do, I’ll set Dinah at you!”

There was a dead silence instantly, and I thought to myself, “I wonder what they will do next! If they had any sense, they’d take the roof off.” After a minute or two, they began moving about again, and I heard the Rabbit say, “A barrowful will do, to begin with.”

“A barrowful of what?” I thought; but I had not long to doubt,


“We must burn the house down!” said the Rabbit’s voice; and I called out as loud as I could, “If you do, I’ll set Dinah at you!” There was a dead silence instantly, and I thought to myself, “I wonder what they will do next! If they had any sense, they’d take the roof off.” After a minute or two, they began moving about again, and I heard the Rabbit say, “A barrowful will do, to begin with.”

“A barrowful of what?” I thought; but I had not long to doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face. “I’ll put a stop to this,” I said to myself, and shouted out, “You’d better not do that again!” which produced another dead silence.

I noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into my head. “If I eat one of these cakes,” I thought, “it’s sure to make some change in my size; and as it can’t possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I suppose.”

So I swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that I began shrinking directly. As soon as I was small enough to get through the door, I ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside. The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle. They all made a rush at me the moment I appeared; but I ran off as hard as I could, and soon found myself safe in a thick wood.

“The first thing I’ve got to do,” I said to myself, as I wandered about in the wood, “is to grow to my right size again; and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. I think that will be the best plan.” It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that I had not the smallest idea how to set about it; and while I was peering about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over my head made me look up in a great hurry.

An enormous puppy was looking down at me with large round eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch me. “Poor little thing!” I said, in a coaxing tone, and I tried hard to whistle to it; but I was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat me up in spite of all my coaxing.

Hardly knowing what I did, I picked up a little bit of stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then I dodged behind a great thistle, to keep myself from being run over; and the moment I appeared on the other side, the puppy made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it; then I, thinking it was very like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

This seemed to me a good opportunity for making my escape; so I set off at once, and ran till I was quite tired and out of breath, and till the puppy’s bark sounded quite faint in the distance. “And yet what a dear little puppy it was!” I said, as I leant against a buttercup to rest myself, and fanned myself with one of the leaves.


I should have liked teaching it tricks very much, if—if I’d only been the right size to do it! Oh dear! I’d nearly forgotten that I’ve got to grow up again! Let me see—how _is_ it to be managed? I suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but the great question is, what?

The great question certainly was, what? I looked all around me at the flowers and the blades of grass, but I did not see anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances.

There was a large mushroom growing near me, about the same height as myself; and when I had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to me that I might as well look and see what was on the top of it.

I stretched myself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of the mushroom, and my eyes immediately met those of a large blue caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded, quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice of me or of anything else.


I stood there, staring into the eyes of the large blue Caterpillar, who was quietly smoking a long hookah. We remained silent for what felt like an eternity. Finally, the Caterpillar broke the silence, taking the hookah out of its mouth and addressing me in a languid, sleepy voice.

“Who are _you?_” the Caterpillar asked.

I felt a bit uneasy. This wasn’t the most welcoming start to a conversation. “I—I hardly know, sir, just at present—at least I know who I _was_ when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been changed several times since then.”

“What do you mean by that?” the Caterpillar demanded sternly. “Explain yourself!”

“I can’t explain _myself_, I’m afraid, sir,” I replied, “because I’m not myself, you see.”

“I don’t see,” the Caterpillar said.

“I’m afraid I can’t put it more clearly,” I responded very politely, “for I can’t understand it myself to begin with; and being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.”

“It isn’t,” the Caterpillar said flatly.

“Well, perhaps you haven’t found it so yet,” I ventured, “but when you have to turn into a chrysalis—you will some day, you know—and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you’ll feel it a little queer, won’t you?”

“Not a bit,” the Caterpillar replied.

“Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,” I said, “all I know is, it would feel very queer to _me_.”

“You!” the Caterpillar said contemptuously. “Who are _you?_”

The conversation seemed to loop back to the beginning, and I felt a little irritated by the Caterpillar’s short remarks. I drew myself up and said, very gravely, “I think, you ought to tell me who _you_ are, first.”

“Why?” the Caterpillar asked.

Another puzzling question. I couldn’t think of any good reason, and the Caterpillar seemed to be in a very unpleasant state of mind. I decided to turn away.

“Come back!” the Caterpillar called after me. “I’ve something important to say!”

That sounded promising. I turned and came back.

“Keep your temper,” the Caterpillar advised.

“Is that all?” I asked, trying to swallow down my anger as well as I could.

“No,” the Caterpillar said.

I decided to wait, as I had nothing else to do, and perhaps it might tell me something worth hearing. For some minutes, the Caterpillar puffed away without speaking. Finally, it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, “So you think you’re changed, do you?”

“I’m afraid I am, sir,” I said; “I can’t remember things as I used—and I don’t keep the same size for ten minutes together!”

“Can’t remember _what_ things?” the Caterpillar asked.

“Well, I’ve tried to say “How doth the little busy bee,” but it all came different!” I replied in a very melancholy voice.

“Repeat, “_You are old, Father William_,’” the Caterpillar instructed.

I folded my hands and began:—

“You are old, Father William,” the young man said,
    “And your hair has become very white;
And yet you incessantly stand on your head—
    Do you think, at your age, it is right?”

“In my youth,” Father William replied to his son,
    “I feared it might injure the brain;
But, now that I’m perfectly sure I have none,
    Why, I do it again and again.”

“You are old,” said the youth, “as I mentioned before,


---

“In my youth,” Father William replied to his son, “I feared it might injure the brain; But, now that I’m perfectly sure I have none, Why, I do it again and again.”

“You are old,” said the youth, “as I mentioned before, And have grown most uncommonly fat; Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door— Pray, what is the reason of that?”

“In my youth,” said the sage, as he shook his grey locks, “I kept all my limbs very supple By the use of this ointment—one shilling the box— Allow me to sell you a couple?”

“You are old,” said the youth, “and your jaws are too weak For anything tougher than suet; Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak— Pray, how did you manage to do it?”

“In my youth,” said his father, “I took to the law, And argued each case with my wife; And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw, Has lasted the rest of my life.”

“You are old,” said the youth, “one would hardly suppose That your eye was as steady as ever; Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose— What made you so awfully clever?”

“I have answered three questions, and that is enough,” Said his father; “don’t give yourself airs! Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff? Be off, or I’ll kick you down stairs!”

“That is not said right,” said the Caterpillar. “Not _quite_ right, I’m afraid,” I timidly replied; “some of the words have got altered.” “It is wrong from beginning to end,” said the Caterpillar decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.

The Caterpillar was the first to speak. “What size do you want to be?” it asked. “Oh, I’m not particular as to size,” I hastily replied; “only one doesn’t like changing so often, you know.” “I _don’t_ know,” said the Caterpillar.

I said nothing: I had never been so much contradicted in my life before, and I felt that I was losing my temper. “Are you content now?” said the Caterpillar. “Well, I should like to be a _little_ larger, sir, if you wouldn’t mind,” I said: “three inches is such a wretched height to be.”

“It is a very good height indeed!” said the Caterpillar angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high). “But I’m not used to it!” I pleaded in a piteous tone. And I thought to myself, “I wish the creatures wouldn’t be so easily offended!”

“You’ll get used to it in time,” said the Caterpillar; and it put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again. This time I waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely remarking as it went, “One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you grow shorter.”

“One side of _what?_ The other side of _what?_” I thought to myself. “Of the mushroom,” said the Caterpillar, just as if I had asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

I remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as it was perfectly round, I found this a very difficult question. However, at last I stretched my arms round it as far as they would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

“And now which is which?” I said to myself, and nibbled a little of the right-hand bit to try the effect: the next moment I felt a violent blow underneath my chin: it had struck my foot!


I was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but I felt that there was no time to be lost, as I was shrinking rapidly; so I set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. My chin was pressed so closely against my foot, that there was hardly room to open my mouth; but I did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.

*      *      *      *      *      *      *
    *      *      *      *      *      *
*      *      *      *      *      *      *

“Come, my head’s free at last!” I said in a tone of delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when I found that my shoulders were nowhere to be found: all I could see, when I looked down, was an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far below me.

“What _can_ all that green stuff be?” I wondered aloud. “And where _have_ my shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I can’t see you?” I was moving them about as I spoke, but no result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the distant green leaves.

As there seemed to be no chance of getting my hands up to my head, I tried to get my head down to them, and was delighted to find that my neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. I had just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which I found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which I had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made me draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into my face, and was beating me violently with its wings.

“Serpent!” screamed the Pigeon.

“I’m _not_ a serpent!” I said indignantly. “Let me alone!”

“Serpent, I say again!” repeated the Pigeon, but in a more subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, “I’ve tried every way, and nothing seems to suit them!”

“I haven’t the least idea what you’re talking about,” I said.

“I’ve tried the roots of trees, and I’ve tried banks, and I’ve tried hedges,” the Pigeon went on, without attending to me; “but those serpents! There’s no pleasing them!”

I was more and more puzzled, but I thought there was no use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

“As if it wasn’t trouble enough hatching the eggs,” said the Pigeon; “but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day! Why, I haven’t had a wink of sleep these three weeks!”

“I’m very sorry you’ve been annoyed,” I said, who was beginning to see its meaning.

“And just as I’d taken the highest tree in the wood,” continued the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, “and just as I was thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down from the sky! Ugh, Serpent!”

“But I’m _not_ a serpent, I tell you!” I said. “I’m a—I’m a—”

“Well! _What_ are you?” said the Pigeon. “I can see you’re trying to invent something!”

“I—I’m a little girl,” I said, rather doubtfully, as I remembered the number of changes I had gone through that day.

“A likely story indeed!” said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest contempt. “I’ve seen a good many little girls in my time, but never _one_ with such a neck as that! No, no! You’re a serpent; and there’s no use denying it. I suppose you’ll be telling me next that you never tasted an egg!”


“I _have_ tasted eggs, certainly,” I said, who was a very truthful child; “but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you know.”

“I don’t believe it,” the Pigeon said; “but if they do, why then they’re a kind of serpent, that’s all I can say.”

This was such a new idea to me, that I was quite silent for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding, “You’re looking for eggs, I know _that_ well enough; and what does it matter to me whether you’re a little girl or a serpent?”

“It matters a good deal to _me_,” I said hastily; “but I’m not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn’t want _yours_: I don’t like them raw.”

“Well, be off, then!” the Pigeon said in a sulky tone, as it settled down again into its nest. I crouched down among the trees as well as I could, for my neck kept getting entangled among the branches, and every now and then I had to stop and untwist it. After a while, I remembered that I still held the pieces of mushroom in my hands, and I set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until I had succeeded in bringing myself down to my usual height.

It was so long since I had been anything near the right size, that it felt quite strange at first; but I got used to it in a few minutes, and began talking to myself, as usual. “Come, there’s half my plan done now! How puzzling all these changes are! I’m never sure what I’m going to be, from one minute to another! However, I’ve got back to my right size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden—how _is_ that to be done, I wonder?” As I said this, I came suddenly upon an open place, with a little house in it about four feet high. “Whoever lives there,” I thought, “it’ll never do to come upon them _this_ size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits!” So I began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did not venture to go near the house till I had brought myself down to nine inches high.


I stood there, staring at the quaint little house, trying to figure out my next move. Suddenly, a footman in livery came rushing out of the woods. His face was so peculiar that I would have called him a fish if not for his attire. He rapped loudly on the door with his knuckles. The door opened to reveal another footman, this one with a round face and large eyes like a frog. Both had powdered hair that curled all over their heads. I crept closer to listen.

The Fish-Footman produced a large letter from under his arm, nearly as big as himself, and handed it to the Frog-Footman, saying in a solemn tone, “For the Duchess. An invitation from the Queen to play croquet.” The Frog-Footman repeated, “From the Queen. An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet.” They both bowed low, and their curls got entangled together. I laughed so hard that I had to run back into the woods for fear they’d hear me. When I peeked out again, the Fish-Footman was gone, and the Frog-Footman was sitting on the ground, staring up at the sky.

I approached the door timidly and knocked. The Frog-Footman, still staring up, said, “There’s no sort of use in knocking, and that for two reasons. First, because I’m on the same side of the door as you are; secondly, because they’re making such a noise inside, no one could possibly hear you.” Indeed, there was a constant howling and sneezing, punctuated by crashes as if dishes or kettles were being broken.

“Please, then,” I said, “how am I to get in?”

“There might be some sense in your knocking,” he continued without looking at me, “if we had the door between us. For instance, if you were inside, you might knock, and I could let you out, you know.” He was still gazing at the sky, which I found decidedly uncivil. “But perhaps he can’t help it,” I thought to myself. “His eyes are so very nearly at the top of his head. But at any rate he might answer questions.—How am I to get in?” I repeated aloud.

“I shall sit here,” the Frog-Footman remarked, “till tomorrow—”

Just then, the door of the house opened, and a large plate came skimming out, straight at his head. It grazed his nose and shattered against a tree behind him.

“—or next day, maybe,” he continued as if nothing had happened.

“How am I to get in?” I asked again, louder this time.

“Are you to get in at all?” he said. “That’s the first question, you know.”

I muttered to myself, “It’s really dreadful, the way all the creatures argue. It’s enough to drive one crazy!”

The Frog-Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his statement, but I was already considering my next move.


---

I muttered to myself, “It’s really dreadful, the way all the creatures argue. It’s enough to drive one crazy!” The Frog-Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for repeating his statement, but I was already considering my next move.

“I shall sit here,” he said, “on and off, for days and days.”

“But what am _I_ to do?” I asked, feeling a bit lost.

“Anything you like,” the Footman replied, and began whistling.

“Oh, there’s no use in talking to him,” I said desperately. “He’s perfectly idiotic!” And with that, I opened the door and stepped inside.

The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of smoke from one end to the other. The Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby. The cook was leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron that seemed to be full of soup.

“There’s certainly too much pepper in that soup!” I thought to myself, trying to suppress a sneeze.

The air was thick with pepper, making it hard to breathe. Even the Duchess sneezed occasionally, and the baby alternated between sneezing and howling without a moment’s pause. The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze were the cook and a large cat sitting on the hearth, grinning from ear to ear.

“Please would you tell me,” I said, a little timidly, “why your cat grins like that?”

“It’s a Cheshire cat,” the Duchess replied, “and that’s why. Pig!”

Her sudden outburst made me jump, but I realized she was addressing the baby, not me. Taking courage, I continued, “I didn’t know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn’t know that cats _could_ grin.”

“They all can,” the Duchess said, “and most of ’em do.”

“I don’t know of any that do,” I said politely, feeling pleased to have started a conversation.

“You don’t know much,” the Duchess retorted, “and that’s a fact.”

I didn’t like the tone of her remark, so I decided to change the subject. While I was trying to think of something else to say, the cook took the cauldron of soup off the fire and began throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby. Fire-irons, saucepans, plates, and dishes flew everywhere. The Duchess barely noticed, and the baby’s howling made it impossible to tell if the blows were hurting it.

“Oh, _please_ mind what you’re doing!” I cried, jumping up and down in terror. “Oh, there goes his _precious_ nose!” as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, nearly taking it off.

“If everybody minded their own business,” the Duchess said in a hoarse growl, “the world would go round a deal faster than it does.”

“Which would _not_ be an advantage,” I said, glad to show off a little of my knowledge. “Just think of what work it would make with the day and night! You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis—”

“Talking of axes,” the Duchess interrupted, “chop off her head!”

I glanced anxiously at the cook, wondering if she would take the hint. But the cook was busy stirring the soup and didn’t seem to be listening. So I continued, “Twenty-four hours, I _think_; or is it twelve? I—”

“Oh, don’t bother _me_,” the Duchess said impatiently. “I never could abide figures!”


“Talking of axes,” the Duchess interrupted, “chop off her head!” I glanced anxiously at the cook, wondering if she would take the hint. But the cook was busy stirring the soup and didn’t seem to be listening. So I continued, “Twenty-four hours, I _think_; or is it twelve? I—”

“Oh, don’t bother _me_,” the Duchess said impatiently. “I never could abide figures!” And with that she began nursing her child again, singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at the end of every line:

“Speak roughly to your little boy,
    And beat him when he sneezes:
He only does it to annoy,
    Because he knows it teases.”

CHORUS.
(In which the cook and the baby joined):
“Wow! wow! wow!”

While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing howled so, that I could hardly hear the words:—

“I speak severely to my boy,
    I beat him when he sneezes;
For he can thoroughly enjoy
    The pepper when he pleases!”

CHORUS.
“Wow! wow! wow!”

“Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!” the Duchess said to me, flinging the baby at me as she spoke. “I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen,” and she hurried out of the room. The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out, but it just missed her.

I caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions, “just like a star-fish,” I thought. The poor little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when I caught it, and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again, so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much as I could do to hold it.

As soon as I had made out the proper way of nursing it, (which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent it from undoing itself,) I carried it out into the open air. “If I don’t take this child away with me,” I thought, “they’re sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldn’t it be murder to leave it behind?” I said the last words out loud, and the little thing grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).

“Don’t grunt,” I said; “that’s not at all a proper way of expressing yourself.”

The baby grunted again, and I looked very anxiously into its face to see what was the matter with it. There could be no doubt that it had a _very_ turn-up nose, much more like a snout than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for a baby: altogether I did not like the look of the thing at all. “But perhaps it was only sobbing,” I thought, and looked into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

No, there were no tears. “If you’re going to turn into a pig, my dear,” I said, seriously, “I’ll have nothing more to do with you. Mind now!” The poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it was impossible to say which), and we went on for some while in silence.

I was just beginning to think to myself, “Now, what am I to do with this creature when I get it home?” when it grunted again, so violently, that I looked down into its face in some alarm. This time there could be _no_ mistake about it: it was neither more nor less than a pig, and I felt that it would be quite absurd for me to carry it further.

So I set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to see it trot away quietly into the wood. “If it had grown up,” I said to myself, “it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes a rather pretty pig, I think.”


---

And she began thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as pigs, and was just saying to herself, “if one only knew the right way to change them—” when I was a little startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off. The Cat only grinned when it saw me. It looked good-natured, I thought: still it had very long claws and a great many teeth, so I felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

“Cheshire Puss,” I began, rather timidly, as I did not at all know whether it would like the name: however, it only grinned a little wider. “Come, it’s pleased so far,” I thought, and I went on. “Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?”

“That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the Cat.

“I don’t much care where—” I said.

“Then it doesn’t matter which way you go,” said the Cat.

“—so long as I get somewhere,” I added as an explanation.

“Oh, you’re sure to do that,” said the Cat, “if you only walk long enough.”

I felt that this could not be denied, so I tried another question. “What sort of people live about here?”

“In that direction,” the Cat said, waving its right paw round, “lives a Hatter: and in that direction,” waving the other paw, “lives a March Hare. Visit either you like: they’re both mad.”

“But I don’t want to go among mad people,” I remarked.

“Oh, you can’t help that,” said the Cat: “we’re all mad here. I’m mad. You’re mad.”

“How do you know I’m mad?” I said.

“You must be,” said the Cat, “or you wouldn’t have come here.”

I didn’t think that proved it at all; however, I went on “And how do you know that you’re mad?”

“To begin with,” said the Cat, “a dog’s not mad. You grant that?”

“I suppose so,” I said.

“Well, then,” the Cat went on, “you see, a dog growls when it’s angry, and wags its tail when it’s pleased. Now I growl when I’m pleased, and wag my tail when I’m angry. Therefore I’m mad.”

“I call it purring, not growling,” I said.

“Call it what you like,” said the Cat. “Do you play croquet with the Queen to-day?”

“I should like it very much,” I said, “but I haven’t been invited yet.”

“You’ll see me there,” said the Cat, and vanished.

I was not much surprised at this, I was getting so used to queer things happening. While I was looking at the place where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

“By-the-bye, what became of the baby?” said the Cat. “I’d nearly forgotten to ask.”

“It turned into a pig,” I quietly said, just as if it had come back in a natural way.

“I thought it would,” said the Cat, and vanished again.

I waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it did not appear, and after a minute or two I walked on in the direction in which the March Hare was said to live. “I’ve seen hatters before,” I said to myself; “the March Hare will be much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won’t be raving mad—at least not so mad as it was in March.” As I said this, I looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a branch of a tree.


---

“Did you say pig, or fig?” said the Cat.

“I said pig,” I replied; “and I wish you wouldn’t keep appearing and vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite giddy.”

“All right,” said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

“Well! I’ve often seen a cat without a grin,” I thought; “but a grin without a cat! It’s the most curious thing I ever saw in my life!”

---

I had not gone much farther before I came in sight of the house of the March Hare. I thought it must be the right house, because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur. It was so large a house, that I did not like to go nearer till I had nibbled some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom, and raised myself to about two feet high. Even then, I walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to myself, “Suppose it should be raving mad after all! I almost wish I’d gone to see the Hatter instead!”


---

I approached the house and saw a table set out under a tree. The March Hare and the Hatter were having tea, with a Dormouse fast asleep between them. The two were using the Dormouse as a cushion, their elbows resting on it as they talked over its head. "Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse," I thought, though it didn't seem to mind being asleep.

The table was large, but the three of them were crowded together at one corner. "No room! No room!" they cried out when they saw me coming. "There’s plenty of room!" I said indignantly, and I sat down in a large arm-chair at one end of the table.

"Have some wine," the March Hare said in an encouraging tone. I looked all around the table but saw only tea. "I don’t see any wine," I remarked. "There isn’t any," the March Hare replied. "Then it wasn’t very civil of you to offer it," I said angrily. "It wasn’t very civil of you to sit down without being invited," the March Hare retorted. "I didn’t know it was your table," I said. "It’s laid for a great many more than three."

"Your hair wants cutting," the Hatter said. He had been looking at me with great curiosity, and this was his first speech. "You should learn not to make personal remarks," I said with some severity. "It’s very rude." The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this but all he said was, "Why is a raven like a writing-desk?"

"Come, we shall have some fun now!" I thought. "I’m glad they’ve begun asking riddles.—I believe I can guess that," I added aloud. "Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?" the March Hare asked. "Exactly so," I replied. "Then you should say what you mean," the March Hare continued. "I do," I hastily replied. "At least—at least I mean what I say—that’s the same thing, you know."

"Not the same thing a bit!" the Hatter said. "You might just as well say that ‘I see what I eat’ is the same thing as ‘I eat what I see’!" "You might just as well say," added the March Hare, "that ‘I like what I get’ is the same thing as ‘I get what I like’!" "You might just as well say," added the Dormouse, who seemed to be talking in his sleep, "that ‘I breathe when I sleep’ is the same thing as ‘I sleep when I breathe’!" "It is the same thing with you," said the Hatter, and here the conversation dropped. The party sat silent for a minute while I thought over all I could remember about ravens and writing-desks, which wasn’t much.

The Hatter was the first to break the silence. "What day of the month is it?" he said, turning to me. He had taken his watch out of his pocket and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then, and holding it to his ear. I considered a little and then said, "The fourth." "Two days wrong!" sighed the Hatter. "I told you butter wouldn’t suit the works!" he added, looking angrily at the March Hare. "It was the best butter," the March Hare meekly replied. "Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well," the Hatter grumbled. "You shouldn’t have put it in with the bread-knife." The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily.


The Hatter was the first to break the silence. "What day of the month is it?" he said, turning to me. He had taken his watch out of his pocket and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then, and holding it to his ear. I considered a little and then said, "The fourth." "Two days wrong!" sighed the Hatter. "I told you butter wouldn’t suit the works!" he added, looking angrily at the March Hare. "It was the best butter," the March Hare meekly replied. "Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well," the Hatter grumbled. "You shouldn’t have put it in with the bread-knife." The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily.

Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity. "What a funny watch!" I remarked. "It tells the day of the month, and doesn’t tell what o’clock it is!" "Why should it?" muttered the Hatter. "Does _your_ watch tell you what year it is?" "Of course not," I replied very readily: "but that’s because it stays the same year for such a long time together." "Which is just the case with _mine_," said the Hatter.

I felt dreadfully puzzled. The Hatter’s remark seemed to have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English. "I don’t quite understand you," I said, as politely as I could. "The Dormouse is asleep again," said the Hatter, and he poured a little hot tea upon its nose.

The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without opening its eyes, "Of course, of course; just what I was going to remark myself." "Have you guessed the riddle yet?" the Hatter said, turning to me again. "No, I give it up," I replied: "what’s the answer?" "I haven’t the slightest idea," said the Hatter. "Nor I," said the March Hare.

I sighed wearily. "I think you might do something better with the time," I said, "than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers." "If you knew Time as well as I do," said the Hatter, "you wouldn’t talk about wasting _it_. It’s _him_." "I don’t know what you mean," I said. "Of course you don’t!" the Hatter said, tossing his head contemptuously. "I dare say you never even spoke to Time!" "Perhaps not," I cautiously replied: "but I know I have to beat time when I learn music." "Ah! that accounts for it," said the Hatter. "He won’t stand beating. Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he’d do almost anything you liked with the clock. For instance, suppose it were nine o’clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons: you’d only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twinkling! Half-past one, time for dinner!"

"I only wish it was," the March Hare said to itself in a whisper. "That would be grand, certainly," I said thoughtfully: "but then—I shouldn’t be hungry for it, you know." "Not at first, perhaps," said the Hatter: "but you could keep it to half-past one as long as you liked." "Is that the way _you_ manage?" I asked.

The Hatter shook his head mournfully. "Not I!" he replied. "We quarrelled last March—just before _he_ went mad, you know—" (pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) "—it was at the great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing 'Twinkle, twinkle, little bat! How I wonder what you’re at!' You know the song, perhaps?" "I’ve heard something like it," I said. "It goes on, you know," the Hatter continued, "in this way:— 'Up above the world you fly, Like a tea-tray in the sky. Twinkle, twinkle—'"

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep "_Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle_—" and went on so long that they had to pinch it to make it stop.


I barely finished the first verse when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, “He’s murdering the time! Off with his head!” I exclaimed, “How dreadfully savage!” The Hatter went on in a mournful tone, “And ever since that, he won’t do a thing I ask! It’s always six o’clock now.”

A bright idea came into my head. “Is that the reason so many tea-things are put out here?” I asked. The Hatter sighed, “Yes, that’s it. It’s always tea-time, and we’ve no time to wash the things between whiles.”

“Then you keep moving round, I suppose?” I said. “Exactly so,” the Hatter replied, “as the things get used up.”

“But what happens when you come to the beginning again?” I ventured to ask. The March Hare interrupted, yawning, “Suppose we change the subject. I’m getting tired of this. I vote the young lady tells us a story.”

“I’m afraid I don’t know one,” I said, rather alarmed at the proposal. “Then the Dormouse shall!” they both cried. “Wake up, Dormouse!” And they pinched it on both sides at once.

The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes. “I wasn’t asleep,” he said in a hoarse, feeble voice, “I heard every word you fellows were saying.” The March Hare said, “Tell us a story!” “Yes, please do!” I pleaded. The Hatter added, “And be quick about it, or you’ll be asleep again before it’s done.”

“Once upon a time there were three little sisters,” the Dormouse began in a great hurry, “and their names were Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well—”

“What did they live on?” I asked, who always took a great interest in questions of eating and drinking. The Dormouse, after thinking a minute or two, said, “They lived on treacle.”

“They couldn’t have done that, you know,” I gently remarked, “they’d have been ill.” “So they were,” the Dormouse said, “_very_ ill.”

I tried to fancy to myself what such an extraordinary way of living would be like, but it puzzled me too much, so I went on, “But why did they live at the bottom of a well?”

“Take some more tea,” the March Hare said to me, very earnestly. “I’ve had nothing yet,” I replied in an offended tone, “so I can’t take more.” The Hatter said, “You mean you can’t take _less_. It’s very easy to take _more_ than nothing.”

“Nobody asked _your_ opinion,” I said. The Hatter asked triumphantly, “Who’s making personal remarks now?”

I did not quite know what to say to this, so I helped myself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the Dormouse, and repeated my question, “Why did they live at the bottom of a well?”

The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then said, “It was a treacle-well.”

“There’s no such thing!” I was beginning very angrily, but the Hatter and the March Hare went “Sh! sh!” and the Dormouse sulkily remarked, “If you can’t be civil, you’d better finish the story for yourself.”

“No, please go on!” I said very humbly, “I won’t interrupt again. I dare say there may be _one_.”


“Take some more tea,” the March Hare said to me, very earnestly. “I’ve had nothing yet,” I replied in an offended tone, “so I can’t take more.” The Hatter said, “You mean you can’t take _less_. It’s very easy to take _more_ than nothing.”
“Nobody asked _your_ opinion,” I said. The Hatter asked triumphantly, “Who’s making personal remarks now?”

I did not quite know what to say to this, so I helped myself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the Dormouse, and repeated my question, “Why did they live at the bottom of a well?”

The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and then said, “It was a treacle-well.”

“There’s no such thing!” I was beginning very angrily, but the Hatter and the March Hare went “Sh! sh!” and the Dormouse sulkily remarked, “If you can’t be civil, you’d better finish the story for yourself.”

“No, please go on!” I said very humbly, “I won’t interrupt again. I dare say there may be _one_.”

“One, indeed!” said the Dormouse indignantly. However, he consented to go on. “And so these three little sisters—they were learning to draw, you know—”
“What did they draw?” I asked, quite forgetting my promise.
“Treacle,” said the Dormouse, without considering at all this time.

“I want a clean cup,” interrupted the Hatter: “let’s all move one place on.”
He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him: the March Hare moved into the Dormouse’s place, and I rather unwillingly took the place of the March Hare. The Hatter was the only one who got any advantage from the change: and I was a good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset the milk-jug into his plate.

I did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so I began very cautiously: “But I don’t understand. Where did they draw the treacle from?”
“You can draw water out of a water-well,” said the Hatter; “so I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well—eh, stupid?”
“But they were _in_ the well,” I said to the Dormouse, not choosing to notice this last remark.
“Of course they were,” said the Dormouse; “—well in.”

This answer so confused me, that I let the Dormouse go on for some time without interrupting it.
“They were learning to draw,” the Dormouse went on, yawning and rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; “and they drew all manner of things—everything that begins with an M—”
“Why with an M?” I asked.
“Why not?” said the March Hare.
I was silent.

The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up again with a little shriek, and went on: “—that begins with an M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness—you know you say things are “much of a muchness”—did you ever see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?”
“Really, now you ask me,” I said, very much confused, “I don’t think—”
“Then you shouldn’t talk,” said the Hatter.

This piece of rudeness was more than I could bear: I got up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of my going, though I looked back once or twice, half hoping that they would call after me: the last time I saw them, they were trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

“At any rate I’ll never go _there_ again!” I said as I picked my way through the wood. “It’s the stupidest tea-party I ever was at in all my life!”

Just as I said this, I noticed that one of the trees had a door leading right into it. “That’s very curious!” I thought. “But everything’s curious today. I think I may as well go in at once.” And in I went.

Once more I found myself in the long hall, and close to the little glass table. “Now, I’ll manage better this time,” I said to myself, and began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking the door that led into the garden. Then I went to work nibbling at the mushroom (I had kept a piece of it in my pocket) till I was about a foot tall.


Once more I found myself in the long hall, and close to the little glass table. “Now, I’ll manage better this time,” I said to myself, and began by taking the little golden key, and unlocking the door that led into the garden. Then I went to work nibbling at the mushroom (I had kept a piece of it in my pocket) till I was about a foot tall. Then she walked down the little passage: and _then_—she found herself at last in the beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountains.


---

I found myself near a large rose-tree at the entrance of the garden. The roses on it were white, but three gardeners were busily painting them red. This seemed very curious to me, so I went closer to watch. As I approached, I heard one of them say, “Look out now, Five! Don’t go splashing paint over me like that!”

“I couldn’t help it,” said Five, in a sulky tone. “Seven jogged my elbow.”

Seven looked up and said, “That’s right, Five! Always lay the blame on others!”

“You’d better not talk!” said Five. “I heard the Queen say only yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!”

“What for?” asked the one who had spoken first.

“That’s none of your business, Two!” said Seven.

“Yes, it is his business!” said Five. “And I’ll tell him—it was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.”

Seven flung down his brush and was about to say, “Well, of all the unjust things—” when he noticed me standing there. The other gardeners looked around, and all of them bowed low.

“Would you tell me,” I said, a little timidly, “why you are painting those roses?”

Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two. Two began in a low voice, “Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to have been a red rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake; and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads cut off, you know. So you see, Miss, we’re doing our best, afore she comes, to—”

At that moment, Five, who had been anxiously looking across the garden, called out, “The Queen! The Queen!” The three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon their faces. I heard the sound of many footsteps and looked around, eager to see the Queen.

First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; they were all shaped like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at the corners. Next, the ten courtiers followed; they were ornamented all over with diamonds and walked two and two, as the soldiers did. After them came the royal children; there were ten of them, and they were all jumping merrily along hand in hand, in couples, and were all ornamented with hearts. Next came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them, I recognized the White Rabbit. It was talking in a hurried, nervous manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without noticing me. Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the King’s crown on a crimson velvet cushion. Last of all this grand procession, came the King and Queen of Hearts.

I was rather doubtful whether I ought not to lie down on my face like the three gardeners, but I couldn’t remember ever having heard of such a rule at processions. “And besides, what would be the use of a procession,” I thought, “if people had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn’t see it?” So I stood still where I was and waited.

When the procession came opposite to me, they all stopped and looked at me. The Queen said severely, “Who is this?” She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in reply.


---

“Idiot!” said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and, turning to Alice, she went on, “What’s your name, child?”

“My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,” I said very politely; but I added to myself, “Why, they’re only a pack of cards, after all. I needn’t be afraid of them!”

“And who are _these?_” said the Queen, pointing to the three gardeners who were lying round the rose-tree; for, you see, as they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her own children.

“How should _I_ know?” I said, surprised at my own courage. “It’s no business of _mine_.”

The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at me for a moment like a wild beast, screamed “Off with her head! Off—”

“Nonsense!” I said, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was silent.

The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said “Consider, my dear: she is only a child!”

The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave “Turn them over!”

The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.

“Get up!” said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.

“Leave off that!” screamed the Queen. “You make me giddy.” And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, “What _have_ you been doing here?”

“May it please your Majesty,” said Two, in a very humble tone, going down on one knee as he spoke, “we were trying—”

“_I_ see!” said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the roses. “Off with their heads!” and the procession moved on, three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners, who ran to me for protection.

“You shan’t be beheaded!” I said, and I put them into a large flower-pot that stood near. The three soldiers wandered about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly marched off after the others.

“Are their heads off?” shouted the Queen.

“Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!” the soldiers shouted in reply.

“That’s right!” shouted the Queen. “Can you play croquet?”

The soldiers were silent, and looked at me, as the question was evidently meant for me.

“Yes!” I shouted.

“Come on, then!” roared the Queen, and I joined the procession, wondering very much what would happen next.

“It’s—it’s a very fine day!” said a timid voice at my side. I was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously into my face.

“Very,” I said: “—where’s the Duchess?”

“Hush! Hush!” said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone. He looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to my ear, and whispered “She’s under sentence of execution.”

“What for?” I said.

“Did you say ‘What a pity!’?” the Rabbit asked.

“No, I didn’t,” I said: “I don’t think it’s at all a pity. I said ‘What for?’”

“She boxed the Queen’s ears—” the Rabbit began. I gave a little scream of laughter. “Oh, hush!” the Rabbit whispered in a frightened tone.


---

“She boxed the Queen’s ears—” the Rabbit began. I gave a little scream of laughter. “Oh, hush!” the Rabbit whispered in a frightened tone. “The Queen will hear you! You see, she came rather late, and the Queen said—”

“Get to your places!” shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder, and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or two, and the game began. I thought I had never seen such a curious croquet-ground in my life; it was all ridges and furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches. The chief difficulty I found at first was in managing my flamingo: I succeeded in getting its body tucked away, comfortably enough, under my arm, with its legs hanging down, but generally, just as I had got its neck nicely straightened out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it would twist itself round and look up in my face, with such a puzzled expression that I could not help bursting out laughing: and when I had got its head down, and was going to begin again, it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself, and was in the act of crawling away: besides all this, there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever I wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground, I soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed. The players all played at once without waiting for turns, quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and shouting “Off with his head!” or “Off with her head!” about once in a minute.

I began to feel very uneasy: to be sure, I had not as yet had any dispute with the Queen, but I knew that it might happen any minute, “and then,” I thought, “what would become of me? They’re dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great wonder is, that there’s any one left alive!”

I was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether I could get away without being seen, when I noticed a curious appearance in the air: it puzzled me very much at first, but, after watching it a minute or two, I made it out to be a grin, and I said to myself “It’s the Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk to.”

“How are you getting on?” said the Cat, as soon as there was mouth enough for it to speak with.

I waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. “It’s no use speaking to it,” I thought, “till its ears have come, or at least one of them.” In another minute the whole head appeared, and then I put down my flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad I had someone to listen to me. The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and no more of it appeared.

“I don’t think they play at all fairly,” I began, in rather a complaining tone, “and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can’t hear oneself speak—and they don’t seem to have any rules in particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them—and you’ve no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive; for instance, there’s the arch I’ve got to go through next walking about at the other end of the


---

I waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded. “It’s no use speaking to it,” I thought, “till its ears have come, or at least one of them.” In another minute the whole head appeared, and then I put down my flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling very glad I had someone to listen to me. The Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and no more of it appeared.

“I don’t think they play at all fairly,” I began, in rather a complaining tone, “and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can’t hear oneself speak—and they don’t seem to have any rules in particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them—and you’ve no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive; for instance, there’s the arch I’ve got to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground—and I should have croqueted the Queen’s hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it saw mine coming!”

“How do you like the Queen?” the Cat asked in a low voice.

“Not at all,” I said: “she’s so extremely—” Just then I noticed that the Queen was close behind me, listening: so I went on, “—likely to win, that it’s hardly worth while finishing the game.”

The Queen smiled and passed on.

“Who _are_ you talking to?” the King asked, going up to me and looking at the Cat’s head with great curiosity.

“It’s a friend of mine—a Cheshire Cat,” I said: “allow me to introduce it.”

“I don’t like the look of it at all,” the King said: “however, it may kiss my hand if it likes.”

“I’d rather not,” the Cat remarked.

“Don’t be impertinent,” the King said, “and don’t look at me like that!” He got behind me as he spoke.

“A cat may look at a king,” I said. “I’ve read that in some book, but I don’t remember where.”

“Well, it must be removed,” the King said very decidedly, and he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, “My dear! I wish you would have this cat removed!”

The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great or small. “Off with his head!” she said, without even looking round.

“I’ll fetch the executioner myself,” the King eagerly said, and he hurried off.

I thought I might as well go back, and see how the game was going on, as I heard the Queen’s voice in the distance, screaming with passion. I had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and I didn’t like the look of things at all, as the game was in such confusion that I never knew whether it was my turn or not. So I went in search of my hedgehog.

The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog, which seemed to me an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of them with the other: the only difficulty was, that my flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where I could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree.

By the time I had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight: “but it doesn’t matter much,” I thought, “as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground.” So I tucked it away under my arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for a little more conversation with my friend.

When I got back to the Cheshire Cat, I was surprised to find quite a large crowd collected round it: there was a dispute going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent, and looked very uncomfortable.

The moment I appeared, I was appealed to by all three to settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to me, though, as they all spoke at once, I found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said.

The executioner’s argument was, that you couldn’t cut off a head unless there was a body to cut it off from: that he had never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn’t going to begin at his time of life.


The King’s argument was, that anything that had a head could be beheaded, and that you weren’t to talk nonsense. The Queen’s argument was, that if something wasn’t done about it in less than no time she’d have everybody executed, all round. This last remark made everyone look so grave and anxious. I could think of nothing else to say but “It belongs to the Duchess: you’d better ask _her_ about it.”

The Queen turned to the executioner and said, “She’s in prison,” and then ordered, “fetch her here.” The executioner nodded and went off like an arrow.

As soon as he was gone, the Cat’s head began fading away. By the time the executioner returned with the Duchess, the Cat’s head had entirely disappeared. The King and the executioner ran wildly up and down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.


---

“You can’t think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!” said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into mine, and we walked off together. I was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and thought to myself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so savage when we met in the kitchen.

“When _I’m_ a Duchess,” I said to myself, (not in a very hopeful tone though), “I won’t have any pepper in my kitchen _at all_. Soup does very well without—Maybe it’s always pepper that makes people hot-tempered,” I went on, very much pleased at having found out a new kind of rule, “and vinegar that makes them sour—and camomile that makes them bitter—and—and barley-sugar and such things that make children sweet-tempered. I only wish people knew _that_: then they wouldn’t be so stingy about it, you know—”

I had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a little startled when I heard her voice close to my ear. “You’re thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you forget to talk. I can’t tell you just now what the moral of that is, but I shall remember it in a bit.”

“Perhaps it hasn’t one,” I ventured to remark.

“Tut, tut, child!” said the Duchess. “Everything’s got a moral, if only you can find it.” And she squeezed herself up closer to my side as she spoke.

I did not much like keeping so close to her: first, because the Duchess was _very_ ugly; and secondly, because she was exactly the right height to rest her chin upon my shoulder, and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin. However, I did not like to be rude, so I bore it as well as I could.

“The game’s going on rather better now,” I said, by way of keeping up the conversation a little.

“’Tis so,” said the Duchess: “and the moral of that is—‘Oh, ’tis love, ’tis love, that makes the world go round!’”

“Somebody said,” I whispered, “that it’s done by everybody minding their own business!”

“Ah, well! It means much the same thing,” said the Duchess, digging her sharp little chin into my shoulder as she added, “and the moral of _that_ is—‘Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of themselves.’”

“How fond she is of finding morals in things!” I thought to myself.

“I dare say you’re wondering why I don’t put my arm round your waist,” the Duchess said after a pause: “the reason is, that I’m doubtful about the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try the experiment?”

“He might bite,” I cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious to have the experiment tried.

“Very true,” said the Duchess: “flamingoes and mustard both bite. And the moral of that is—‘Birds of a feather flock together.’”

“Only mustard isn’t a bird,” I remarked.

“Right, as usual,” said the Duchess: “what a clear way you have of putting things!”

“It’s a mineral, I _think_,” I said.

“Of course it is,” said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to everything that I said; “there’s a large mustard-mine near here. And the moral of that is—‘The more there is of mine, the less there is of yours.’”

“Oh, I know!” I exclaimed, who had not attended to this last remark, “it’s a vegetable. It doesn’t look like one, but it is.”

“I quite agree with you,” said the Duchess; “and the moral of that is—‘The more there is of yours, the less there is of mine.’”


---

“Of course it is,” said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to everything that I said; “there’s a large mustard-mine near here. And the moral of that is—‘The more there is of mine, the less there is of yours.’”

“Oh, I know!” I exclaimed, who had not attended to this last remark, “it’s a vegetable. It doesn’t look like one, but it is.”

“I quite agree with you,” said the Duchess; “and the moral of that is—‘The more there is of yours, the less there is of mine.’”

“I think I should understand that better,” I said very politely, “if I had it written down: but I can’t quite follow it as you say it.”

“That’s nothing to what I could say if I chose,” the Duchess replied, in a pleased tone.

“Pray don’t trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,” I said.

“Oh, don’t talk about trouble!” said the Duchess. “I make you a present of everything I’ve said as yet.”

“A cheap sort of present!” I thought. “I’m glad they don’t give birthday presents like that!” But I did not venture to say it out loud.

“Thinking again?” the Duchess asked, with another dig of her sharp little chin.

“I’ve a right to think,” I said sharply, for I was beginning to feel a little worried.

“Just about as much right,” said the Duchess, “as pigs have to fly; and the m—”

But here, to my great surprise, the Duchess’s voice died away, even in the middle of her favourite word ‘moral,’ and the arm that was linked into mine began to tremble. I looked up, and there stood the Queen in front of us, with her arms folded, frowning like a thunderstorm.

“A fine day, your Majesty!” the Duchess began in a low, weak voice.

“Now, I give you fair warning,” shouted the Queen, stamping on the ground as she spoke; “either you or your head must be off, and that in about half no time! Take your choice!”

The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

“Let’s go on with the game,” the Queen said to me; and I was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her back to the croquet-ground.

The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen’s absence, and were resting in the shade: however, the moment they saw her, they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a moment’s delay would cost them their lives.

All the time they were playing, the Queen never left off quarrelling with the other players, and shouting “Off with his head!” or “Off with her head!” Those whom she sentenced were taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the King, the Queen, and me, were in custody and under sentence of execution.

Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to me, “Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?”

“No,” I said. “I don’t even know what a Mock Turtle is.”

“It’s the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,” said the Queen.

“I never saw one, or heard of one,” I said.

“Come on, then,” said the Queen, “and he shall tell you his history.”

As we walked off together, I heard the King say in a low voice, to the company generally, “You are all pardoned.” “Come, _that’s_ a good thing!” I said to myself, for I had felt quite unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

We very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the sun. (If you don’t know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.) “Up, lazy thing!” said the Queen, “and take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history. I must go back and see after some executions I have ordered.”


---

I watched as the Queen walked off, leaving me alone with the Gryphon. I did not quite like the look of the creature, but on the whole, I thought it would be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage Queen. So I waited.

The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes. Then it watched the Queen till she was out of sight. Then it chuckled. "What fun!" said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to me.

"What _is_ the fun?" I asked.

"Why, _she_," said the Gryphon. "It’s all her fancy, that: they never executes nobody, you know. Come on!"

"Everybody says ‘come on!’ here," I thought to myself, as I went slowly after it. "I never was so ordered about in all my life, never!"

We had not gone far before we saw the Mock Turtle in the distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock. As we came nearer, I could hear him sighing as if his heart would break. I pitied him deeply. "What is his sorrow?" I asked the Gryphon.

The Gryphon answered, very nearly in the same words as before, "It’s all his fancy, that: he hasn’t got no sorrow, you know. Come on!"

So we went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at us with large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

"This here young lady," said the Gryphon, "she wants for to know your history, she do."

The Mock Turtle spoke in a deep, hollow tone: "I’ll tell it her. Sit down, both of you, and don’t speak a word till I’ve finished."

So we sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes. I thought to myself, "I don’t see how he can _ever_ finish, if he doesn’t begin." But I waited patiently.

"Once," said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, "I was a real Turtle."


---

“_I’ve_ been to a day-school, too,” I said, trying to match the Mock Turtle’s tone. “You needn’t be so proud as all that.”

“With extras?” the Mock Turtle asked, a little anxiously.

“Yes,” I replied, “we learned French and music.”

“And washing?” the Mock Turtle inquired.

“Certainly not!” I said indignantly.

“Ah! then yours wasn’t a really good school,” the Mock Turtle said in a tone of great relief. “Now at _ours_ they had at the end of the bill, ‘French, music, _and washing_—extra.’”

“You couldn’t have wanted it much,” I said; “living at the bottom of the sea.”

“I couldn’t afford to learn it,” the Mock Turtle sighed. “I only took the regular course.”

“What was that?” I inquired.

“Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,” the Mock Turtle replied; “and then the different branches of Arithmetic—Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.”

“I never heard of ‘Uglification,’” I ventured to say. “What is it?”

The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise. “What! Never heard of uglifying!” it exclaimed. “You know what to beautify is, I suppose?”

“Yes,” I said doubtfully: “it means—to—make—anything—prettier.”

“Well, then,” the Gryphon went on, “if you don’t know what to uglify is, you _are_ a simpleton.”

I did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about it, so I turned to the Mock Turtle and said, “What else had you to learn?”

“Well, there was Mystery,” the Mock Turtle replied, counting off the subjects on his flappers, “—Mystery, ancient and modern, with Seaography: then Drawling—the Drawling-master was an old conger-eel, that used to come once a week: _he_ taught us Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.”

“What was _that_ like?” I said.

“Well, I can’t show it you myself,” the Mock Turtle said: “I’m too stiff. And the Gryphon never learnt it.”

“Hadn’t time,” the Gryphon said: “I went to the Classics master, though. He was an old crab, _he_ was.”

“I never went to him,” the Mock Turtle said with a sigh: “he taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.”

“So he did, so he did,” the Gryphon sighed in his turn; and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

“And how many hours a day did you do lessons?” I said, in a hurry to change the subject.

“Ten hours the first day,” the Mock Turtle said: “nine the next, and so on.”

“What a curious plan!” I exclaimed.

“That’s the reason they’re called lessons,” the Gryphon remarked: “because they lessen from day to day.”

This was quite a new idea to me, and I thought it over a little before I made my next remark. “Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday?”

“Of course it was,” the Mock Turtle said.

“And how did you manage on the twelfth?” I went on eagerly.

“That’s enough about lessons,” the Gryphon interrupted in a very decided tone: “tell her something about the games now.”


The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper across his eyes. He looked at me, Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice. The Gryphon, ever the impatient one, set to work shaking him and punching him in the back. At last, the Mock Turtle recovered his voice, and with tears running down his cheeks, he began to speak again.

“You may not have lived much under the sea—” he started, and I quickly interjected, “I haven’t.” He continued, “and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster—” I almost said something about tasting one once, but caught myself just in time and said, “No, never.” The Mock Turtle seemed not to notice and went on, “—so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a Lobster Quadrille is!”

“No, indeed,” I said. “What sort of a dance is it?”

The Gryphon, always eager to explain, jumped in. “Why,” he said, “you first form into a line along the sea-shore—”

“Two lines!” cried the Mock Turtle. “Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on; then, when you’ve cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way—”

“That generally takes some time,” interrupted the Gryphon.

The Mock Turtle, undeterred, continued, “—you advance twice—”

“Each with a lobster as a partner!” shouted the Gryphon.

“Of course,” the Mock Turtle said: “advance twice, set to partners—”

“—change lobsters, and retire in same order,” continued the Gryphon.

“Then, you know,” the Mock Turtle went on, “you throw the—”

“The lobsters!” shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.

“—as far out to sea as you can—”

“Swim after them!” screamed the Gryphon.

“Turn a somersault in the sea!” cried the Mock Turtle, capering wildly about.

“Change lobsters again!” yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice.

“Back to land again, and that’s all the first figure,” said the Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures, who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at me.

“It must be a very pretty dance,” I said timidly.

“Would you like to see a little of it?” asked the Mock Turtle.

“Very much indeed,” I replied.

“Come, let’s try the first figure!” said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon. “We can do without lobsters, you know. Which shall sing?”

“Oh, you sing,” said the Gryphon. “I’ve forgotten the words.”

So they began solemnly dancing round and round me, every now and then treading on my toes when they passed too close, and waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly and sadly:—

“Will you walk a little faster?” said a whiting to a snail.
“There’s a porpoise close behind us, and he’s treading on my tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle—will you come and join the dance?
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance?
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance?
“You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to sea!”
But the snail replied “Too far, too far!” and gave a look askance—
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance.
“What matters it how far we go?” his scaly friend replied.
“There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.


---

The further off from England the nearer is to France—then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance. Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance? Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance? The Mock Turtle and the Gryphon looked at me expectantly, their eyes wide with anticipation.

“Thank you, it’s a very interesting dance to watch,” I said, feeling very glad that it was over at last. “and I do so like that curious song about the whiting!” The Mock Turtle nodded, his eyes twinkling with amusement.

“Oh, as to the whiting,” the Mock Turtle said, “they—you’ve seen them, of course?” I nodded, remembering the times I had seen them at dinner. “Yes,” I replied, “I’ve often seen them at dinn—” I quickly stopped myself, realizing I might have said too much.

“I don’t know where Dinn may be,” the Mock Turtle said, “but if you’ve seen them so often, of course you know what they’re like.” I thought for a moment, trying to recall the details. “I believe so,” I replied thoughtfully. “They have their tails in their mouths—and they’re all over crumbs.”

“You’re wrong about the crumbs,” the Mock Turtle said. “crumbs would all wash off in the sea. But they _have_ their tails in their mouths; and the reason is—” He yawned and shut his eyes. “Tell her about the reason and all that,” he said to the Gryphon.

“The reason is,” the Gryphon said, “that they _would_ go with the lobsters to the dance. So they got thrown out to sea. So they had to fall a long way. So they got their tails fast in their mouths. So they couldn’t get them out again. That’s all.” I listened intently, finding the explanation both fascinating and strange.

“Thank you,” I said, “it’s very interesting. I never knew so much about a whiting before.” The Gryphon nodded, clearly pleased with my interest. “I can tell you more than that, if you like,” he said. “Do you know why it’s called a whiting?”

I shook my head, admitting that I had never thought about it. “I never thought about it,” I said. “Why?” The Gryphon’s expression grew solemn. “_It does the boots and shoes_,” he replied very solemnly. I was thoroughly puzzled. “Does the boots and shoes!” I repeated in a wondering tone.

“Why, what are _your_ shoes done with?” the Gryphon asked. “I mean, what makes them so shiny?” I looked down at my shoes, considering the question. “They’re done with blacking, I believe.” The Gryphon nodded, as if this was the expected answer.

“Boots and shoes under the sea,” the Gryphon continued in a deep voice, “are done with a whiting. Now you know.” I was still curious about the materials used. “And what are they made of?” I asked, my tone filled with great curiosity.

“Soles and eels, of course,” the Gryphon replied rather impatiently. “any shrimp could have told you that.” I couldn’t help but smile at the absurdity of it all.

“If I’d been the whiting,” I said, my thoughts still running on the song, “I’d have said to the porpoise, ‘Keep back, please: we don’t want _you_ with us!’” The Mock Turtle chuckled, clearly amused by my comment.

“They were obliged to have him with them,” the Mock Turtle said. “no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.” I was surprised by this revelation. “Wouldn’t it really?” I asked, my tone filled with great surprise.

“Of course not,” the Mock Turtle replied. “why, if a fish came to _me_, and told me he was going a journey, I should say ‘With what porpoise?’” I couldn’t help but correct him. “Don’t you mean ‘purpose’?” I asked.

“I mean what I say,” the Mock Turtle replied in an offended tone. The Gryphon quickly changed the subject. “Come, let’s hear some of _your_ adventures,” he said.

“I could tell you my adventures—beginning from this morning,” I said a little timidly. “but it’s no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then.” The Mock Turtle seemed intrigued. “Explain all that,” he said.


“No, no! The adventures first,” said the Gryphon in an impatient tone. “Explanations take such a dreadful time.” So I began telling them my adventures from the time when I first saw the White Rabbit. I was a little nervous at first, with the two creatures getting so close to me, one on each side, and opening their eyes and mouths so very wide. But I gained courage as I went on. My listeners were perfectly quiet until I got to the part about repeating “_You are old, Father William_,” to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming out different. Then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath and said, “That’s very curious.”

“It’s all about as curious as it can be,” said the Gryphon.

“It all came different!” the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully. “I should like to hear her try and repeat something now. Tell her to begin.” He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over me.

“Stand up and repeat ‘’_Tis the voice of the sluggard_,’” said the Gryphon.

How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat lessons! I thought to myself. I might as well be at school at once. However, I got up and began to repeat it, but my head was so full of the Lobster Quadrille that I hardly knew what I was saying. The words came out very queer indeed:—

“’Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
“You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair.”
As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.”

“That’s different from what _I_ used to say when I was a child,” said the Gryphon.

“Well, I never heard it before,” said the Mock Turtle; “but it sounds uncommon nonsense.”

I said nothing; I had sat down with my face in my hands, wondering if anything would ever happen in a natural way again.

“I should like to have it explained,” said the Mock Turtle.

“She can’t explain it,” said the Gryphon hastily. “Go on with the next verse.”

“But about his toes?” the Mock Turtle persisted. “How could he turn them out with his nose, you know?”

“It’s the first position in dancing,” I said, but I was dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing and longed to change the subject.

“Go on with the next verse,” the Gryphon repeated impatiently. “It begins ‘_I passed by his garden_.’”

I did not dare to disobey, though I felt sure it would all come wrong. I went on in a trembling voice:—

“I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie—”

“What is the use of repeating all that stuff,” the Mock Turtle interrupted, “if you don’t explain it as you go on? It’s by far the most confusing thing I ever heard!”

“Yes, I think you’d better leave off,” said the Gryphon. And I was relieved to stop, though I still felt puzzled and longed for something more natural to happen.


I was only too glad to do so. “Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?” the Gryphon went on. “Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?”

“Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,” I replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather offended tone, “Hm! No accounting for tastes! Sing her ‘_Turtle Soup_,’ will you, old fellow?”

The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes choked with sobs, to sing this:—

“Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
Waiting in a hot tureen!
Who for such dainties would not stoop?
Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
    Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
    Beautiful, beautiful Soup!
“Beautiful Soup! Who cares for fish,
Game, or any other dish?
Who would not give all else for two p
ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
    Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
    Beautiful, beauti—FUL SOUP!”

“Chorus again!” cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had just begun to repeat it, when a cry of “The trial’s beginning!” was heard in the distance.

“Come on!” cried the Gryphon, and, taking me by the hand, it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

“What trial is it?” I panted as we ran; but the Gryphon only answered “Come on!” and ran the faster, while more and more faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed us, the melancholy words:—

“Soo—oop of the e—e—evening,
    Beautiful, beautiful Soup!”


---

The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them—all sorts of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards: the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit, with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the other. In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it: they looked so good, that it made me quite hungry to look at them—“I wish they’d get the trial done,” I thought, “and hand round the refreshments!” But there seemed to be no chance of this, so I began looking at everything about me, to pass away the time.

I had never been in a court of justice before, but I had read about them in books, and I was quite pleased to find that I knew the name of nearly everything there. “That’s the judge,” I said to myself, “because of his great wig.” The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming. “And that’s the jury-box,” I thought, “and those twelve creatures,” (I was obliged to say “creatures,” you see, because some of them were animals, and some were birds,) “I suppose they are the jurors.” I said this last word two or three times over to myself, being rather proud of it: for I thought, and rightly too, that very few little girls of my age knew the meaning of it at all. However, “jury-men” would have done just as well.

The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates. “What are they doing?” I whispered to the Gryphon. “They can’t have anything to put down yet, before the trial’s begun.” “They’re putting down their names,” the Gryphon whispered in reply, “for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial.” “Stupid things!” I began in a loud, indignant voice, but I stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, “Silence in the court!” and the King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round, to make out who was talking.

I could see, as well as if I were looking over their shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down “stupid things!” on their slates, and I could even make out that one of them didn’t know how to spell “stupid,” and that he had to ask his neighbour to tell him. “A nice muddle their slates’ll be in before the trial’s over!” I thought.

One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked. This of course, I could _not_ stand, and I went round the court and got behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it away. I did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very little use, as it left no mark on the slate.

“Herald, read the accusation!” said the King. On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:—


---

“The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
    All on a summer day:
The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
    And took them quite away!”
“Consider your verdict,” the King said to the jury.
“Not yet, not yet!” the Rabbit hastily interrupted. “There’s a great
deal to come before that!”

---

“Call the first witness,” said the King; and the White Rabbit blew
three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, “First witness!”
The first witness was the Hatter. He came in with a teacup in one hand
and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other. “I beg pardon, your
Majesty,” he began, “for bringing these in: but I hadn’t quite finished
my tea when I was sent for.”
“You ought to have finished,” said the King. “When did you begin?”
The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into the
court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse. “Fourteenth of March, I _think_ it
was,” he said.
“Fifteenth,” said the March Hare.
“Sixteenth,” added the Dormouse.
“Write that down,” the King said to the jury, and the jury eagerly
wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added them up, and
reduced the answer to shillings and pence.
“Take off your hat,” the King said to the Hatter.
“It isn’t mine,” said the Hatter.
“_Stolen!_” the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who instantly made
a memorandum of the fact.
“I keep them to sell,” the Hatter added as an explanation; “I’ve none
of my own. I’m a hatter.”
Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the Hatter,
who turned pale and fidgeted.
“Give your evidence,” said the King; “and don’t be nervous, or I’ll
have you executed on the spot.”
This did not seem to encourage the witness at all: he kept shifting
from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the Queen, and in his
confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the
bread-and-butter.

---

Just at this moment I felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled
me a good deal until I made out what it was: I was beginning to
grow larger again, and I thought at first I would get up and leave
the court; but on second thoughts I decided to remain where I was
as long as there was room for me.
“I wish you wouldn’t squeeze so.” said the Dormouse, who was sitting
next to me. “I can hardly breathe.”
“I can’t help it,” I said very meekly: “I’m growing.”
“You’ve no right to grow _here_,” said the Dormouse.
“Don’t talk nonsense,” I said more boldly: “you know you’re growing
too.”
“Yes, but _I_ grow at a reasonable pace,” said the Dormouse: “not in
that ridiculous fashion.” And he got up very sulkily and crossed over
to the other side of the court.
All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the Hatter, and,
just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to one of the officers
of the court, “Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert!”
on which the wretched Hatter trembled so, that he shook both his shoes
off.
“Give your evidence,” the King repeated angrily, “or I’ll have you
executed, whether you’re nervous or not.”
“I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” the Hatter began, in a trembling voice,


---

“I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” the Hatter began, in a trembling voice. The King’s eyes narrowed as he demanded, “Give your evidence, or I’ll have you executed.” The Hatter’s voice wavered as he continued, “I hadn’t begun my tea—not above a week or so—and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin—and the twinkling of the tea—”

The King interrupted, “The twinkling of the _what?_”

“It _began_ with the tea,” the Hatter replied.

“Of course twinkling begins with a T!” the King snapped. “Do you take me for a dunce? Go on!”

“I’m a poor man,” the Hatter went on, “and most things twinkled after that—only the March Hare said—”

“I didn’t!” the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

“You did!” the Hatter insisted.

“I deny it!” the March Hare retorted.

“He denies it,” the King said, “leave out that part.”

“Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said—” the Hatter went on, looking anxiously around. But the Dormouse, fast asleep, denied nothing.

“After that,” the Hatter continued, “I cut some more bread-and-butter—”

“But what did the Dormouse say?” one of the jury members asked.

“That I can’t remember,” the Hatter admitted.

“You _must_ remember,” the King insisted, “or I’ll have you executed.”

The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, going down on one knee. “I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” he began.

“You’re a _very_ poor _speaker_,” the King declared.

One of the guinea-pigs cheered, but was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court. I watched as they slipped the guinea-pig head first into a large canvas bag, tying it up at the mouth with strings. “I’m glad I’ve seen that done,” I thought. “I’ve so often read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, ‘There was some attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court,’ and I never understood what it meant till now.”

“If that’s all you know about it, you may stand down,” the King continued.

“I can’t go no lower,” the Hatter said, “I’m on the floor, as it is.”

“Then you may _sit_ down,” the King replied.

The other guinea-pig cheered, and was also suppressed. “Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!” I thought. “Now we shall get on better.”

“I’d rather finish my tea,” the Hatter said, with an anxious look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.

“You may go,” the King said, and the Hatter hurriedly left the court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.

“—and just take his head off outside,” the Queen added to one of the officers, but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get to the door.

---

“Call the next witness!” the King ordered.

The next witness was the Duchess’s cook. She carried the pepper-box in her hand, and I guessed who it was even before she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once.

“Give your evidence,” the King said.

“Shan’t,” the cook replied.

The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a low voice, “Your Majesty must cross-examine _this_ witness.”

“Well, if I must, I must,” the King said, with a melancholy air. He folded his arms and frowned at the cook till his eyes were nearly out of sight. “What are tarts made of?” he asked in a deep voice.

“Pepper, mostly,” the cook said.

“Treacle,” said a sleepy voice behind her.


The Queen's shrill voice cut through the air, “Collar that Dormouse! Behead that Dormouse! Turn that Dormouse out of court! Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his whiskers!” The court erupted into chaos as everyone scrambled to comply with her orders. The Dormouse was hastily removed, and by the time things settled down, the cook had mysteriously vanished.

The King sighed in relief, “Never mind! Call the next witness.” He leaned towards the Queen and whispered, “Really, my dear, you must cross-examine the next witness. It quite makes my forehead ache!” I watched the White Rabbit fumble with his list, feeling a growing curiosity about who the next witness would be. “—for they haven’t got much evidence yet,” I thought to myself. My heart skipped a beat when the White Rabbit, in his shrill little voice, read out the name “Alice!”


I barely had time to process what was happening when I jumped up, forgetting how large I had become. In my haste, I tipped over the jury-box, sending the jurymen sprawling onto the heads of the crowd below. It reminded me of the time I accidentally upset a globe of goldfish. "Oh, I _beg_ your pardon!" I exclaimed, feeling great dismay as I quickly began picking them up, trying to put them back into the jury-box before they could die.

The King, in a very grave voice, said, "The trial cannot proceed until all the jurymen are back in their proper places—_all_." He emphasized the word "all" and looked hard at me as he said it. I glanced at the jury-box and saw that I had put the Lizard head downwards. The poor thing was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, unable to move. I soon got it out again and put it right, though I thought to myself, "Not that it signifies much; I should think it would be _quite_ as much use in the trial one way up as the other."

Once the jurymen had recovered from the shock and their slates and pencils were found and handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the accident. All except the Lizard, who seemed too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open, gazing up into the roof of the court.

"What do you know about this business?" the King asked me.

"Nothing," I replied.

"Nothing _whatever_?" the King persisted.

"Nothing whatever," I said.

The King turned to the jury and said, "That’s very important." They were just beginning to write this down on their slates when the White Rabbit interrupted, "Unimportant, your Majesty means, of course," he said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke.

"Unimportant, of course, I meant," the King hastily said, and went on to himself in an undertone, "important—unimportant—unimportant—important—" as if he were trying which word sounded best. Some of the jury wrote it down "important," and some "unimportant." I could see this, as I was near enough to look over their slates; "but it doesn’t matter a bit," I thought to myself.

At this moment, the King, who had been for some time busily writing in his note-book, cackled out "Silence!" and read out from his book, "Rule Forty-two. _All persons more than a mile high to leave the court_."

Everybody looked at me. "I’m not a mile high," I said.

"You are," the King said.

"Nearly two miles high," added the Queen.

"Well, I shan’t go, at any rate," I said. "Besides, that’s not a regular rule: you invented it just now."

"It’s the oldest rule in the book," the King said.

"Then it ought to be Number One," I said.

The King turned pale and shut his note-book hastily. "Consider your verdict," he said to the jury, in a low, trembling voice.

"There’s more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty," said the White Rabbit.


---

The King turned pale and shut his note-book hastily. "Consider your verdict," he said to the jury, in a low, trembling voice.

White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; “this paper has just been picked up.”

“What’s in it?” said the Queen.

“I haven’t opened it yet,” said the White Rabbit, “but it seems to be a letter, written by the prisoner to—to somebody.”

“It must have been that,” said the King, “unless it was written to nobody, which isn’t usual, you know.”

“Who is it directed to?” said one of the jurymen.

“It isn’t directed at all,” said the White Rabbit; “in fact, there’s nothing written on the _outside_.” He unfolded the paper as he spoke, and added “It isn’t a letter, after all: it’s a set of verses.”

“Are they in the prisoner’s handwriting?” asked another of the jurymen.

“No, they’re not,” said the White Rabbit, “and that’s the queerest thing about it.” (The jury all looked puzzled.)

“He must have imitated somebody else’s hand,” said the King. (The jury all brightened up again.)

“Please your Majesty,” said the Knave, “I didn’t write it, and they can’t prove I did: there’s no name signed at the end.”

“If you didn’t sign it,” said the King, “that only makes the matter worse. You _must_ have meant some mischief, or else you’d have signed your name like an honest man.”

There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really clever thing the King had said that day.

“That _proves_ his guilt,” said the Queen.

“It proves nothing of the sort!” I said. “Why, you don’t even know what they’re about!”

“Read them,” said the King.

The White Rabbit put on his spectacles. “Where shall I begin, please your Majesty?” he asked.

“Begin at the beginning,” the King said gravely, “and go on till you come to the end: then stop.”

These were the verses the White Rabbit read:—
“They told me you had been to her,
    And mentioned me to him:
She gave me a good character,
    But said I could not swim.
He sent them word I had not gone
    (We know it to be true):
If she should push the matter on,
    What would become of you?
I gave her one, they gave him two,
    You gave us three or more;
They all returned from him to you,
    Though they were mine before.
If I or she should chance to be
    Involved in this affair,
He trusts to you to set them free,
    Exactly as we were.
My notion was that you had been
    (Before she had this fit)
An obstacle that came between
    Him, and ourselves, and it.
Don’t let him know she liked them best,
    For this must ever be
A secret, kept from all the rest,
    Between yourself and me.”

“That’s the most important piece of evidence we’ve heard yet,” said the King, rubbing his hands. “so now let the jury—”

“If any one of them can explain it,” I said, (I had grown so large in the last few minutes that I wasn’t a bit afraid of interrupting him,) “I’ll give him sixpence. _I_ don’t believe there’s an atom of meaning in it.”

The jury all wrote down on their slates, “_She_ doesn’t believe there’s an atom of meaning in it,” but none of them attempted to explain the paper.

“If there’s no meaning in it,” said the King, “that saves a world of trouble, you know, as we needn’t try to find any. And yet I don’t know,” he went on, spreading out the verses on his knee, and looking at them with one eye; “I seem to see some meaning in them, after all. “—_said I could not swim_—” you can’t swim, can you?” he added, turning to the Knave.


The Knave shook his head sadly. "Do I look like it?" he said. (Which he certainly did _not_, being made entirely of cardboard.)

The King went on muttering over the verses to himself: “‘_We know it to be true_—’ that’s the jury, of course—‘_I gave her one, they gave him two_—’ why, that must be what he did with the tarts, you know—”

“But, it goes on ‘_they all returned from him to you_,’” I said.

“Why, there they are!” said the King triumphantly, pointing to the tarts on the table. “Nothing can be clearer than _that_. Then again—‘_before she had this fit_—’ you never had fits, my dear, I think?” he said to the Queen.

“Never!” said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the Lizard as she spoke. (The unfortunate little Bill had left off writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)

“Then the words don’t _fit_ you,” said the King, looking round the court with a smile. There was a dead silence.

“It’s a pun!” the King added in an offended tone, and everybody laughed, “Let the jury consider their verdict,” the King said, for about the twentieth time that day.

“No, no!” said the Queen. “Sentence first—verdict afterwards.”

“Stuff and nonsense!” I said loudly. “The idea of having the sentence first!”

“Hold your tongue!” said the Queen, turning purple.

“I won’t!” I said.

“Off with her head!” the Queen shouted at the top of her voice. Nobody moved.

“Who cares for you?” I said, (I had grown to my full size by this time.) “You’re nothing but a pack of cards!”

At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying down upon me: I gave a little scream, half of fright and half of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found myself lying on the bank, with my head in the lap of my sister, who was gently brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the trees upon my face.

“Wake up, Alice dear!” said my sister; “Why, what a long sleep you’ve had!”

“Oh, I’ve had such a curious dream!” I said, and I told my sister, as well as I could remember them, all these strange Adventures of mine that you have just been reading about; and when I had finished, my sister kissed me, and said, “It _was_ a curious dream, dear, certainly: but now run in to your tea; it’s getting late.”

So I got up and ran off, thinking while I ran, as well I might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

But my sister sat still just as I left her, leaning her head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:—

First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers—she could hear the very tones of my voice, and see that queer little toss of my head to keep back the wandering hair that _would_ always get into my eyes—and still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place around her became alive with the strange creatures of my little sister’s dream.


The long grass rustled at my feet as the White Rabbit hurried by—the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool—I could hear the rattle of the teacups as the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution—once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the Duchess’s knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it—once more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard’s slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs, filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable Mock Turtle.

So I sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed myself in Wonderland, though I knew I had but to open them again, and all would change to dull reality—the grass would be only rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the reeds—the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells, and the Queen’s shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd boy—and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and all the other queer noises, would change (I knew) to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard—while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle’s heavy sobs.

Lastly, I pictured to myself how this same little sister of mine would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and loving heart of her childhood: and how she would gather about her other little children, and make their eyes bright and eager with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of Wonderland of long ago: and how she would feel with all their simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys, remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.
